Health Insurance Pension Schemes
Poor numbers:Only 8% of the informal sector is covered under any social security scheme. And, 82.7% of the 47.41 crore workforce is in the unorganised sector with no access to social security.The Union government on Thursday proposed an ambitious law to provide social security net to the 47.41 crore-strong workforce of the country.The proposed code on Social Security and Welfare intends to make a drastic shift in the social security framework of the country from an employment-based approach to a rights-based approach followed by some developing countries such as South Africa.This means claiming social security benefits will become a right for everyone who joins the workforce. At present, the social security set-up in India is only restricted to the formal sector where the employers make a contribution towards social security schemes such as provident fund, insurance and pension of the workers.Only about 8% of the informal sector is covered under any social security scheme, according the National Commission for Enterprises in the Unorganized Sector (NCEUS). At present, 82.7% of the 47.41 crore workforce is in the unorganised sector and does not have access to any kind of social security, according to the Labour and Employment Ministry.When the draft code takes final shape in the form of a law, there will be universal coverage of social security schemes guaranteeing equal treatment to all the workers.One for everyoneAccording to the proposed law, factories employing even a single worker will have to contribute towards social security benefits. Also, even households employing domestic help will also have contribute towards schemes including provident fund and gratuity for the worker. Self-employed persons, including agricultural labourers, will also make contribution towards the schemes on their own.Significantly, casual, part-time or self-employed workers earning less than the stipulated minimum wages will not have to pay any contribution towards the social security schemes but will be entitled to these benefits through a fund set up by the government, according to another proposal.The existing social security schemes have a limited reach due to application of thresholds based on income and number of workers in a factory. For instance, the provident fund and pension contribution, administered by the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), is mandatory only for factories employing at least 20 workers.We feel that only a rights-based approach can lead the reform process to achieve universal social security cover for the workforce, a top labour ministry official said. The draft code clearly states the entitlement of beneficiaries to benefits and any denial of the same would justify recourse to legal remedies. It will become a right for the claimant as it will be enforceable by law, the official said.Various researches have pointed out significant flaws in the present social security framework of the country. The International Social Security Association (ISSA) in its Social Security Coverage Extension in the BRICS report said that the best way to describe the social security coverage in India is a patchwork as there was a total mismatch between the labour market realities and the history of social security laws.Despite attempts over several years by Central and State governments to extend social security coverage to marginalised groups of workers, the current state of affairs is still wholly unsatisfactory, as revealed by evidence-based research, according to a report titled, Social Security Reform in India submitted by Professor Marius Olivier to the International Labour Organisation in May 2016.It noted that only 1% of the agricultural workers have reportedly been provided social security cover, even as close to all the casual workers are deprived of any benefits and socially or economically deprived people had much less coverage than the others. It also said that wage workers in the unorganised sector too had close to no social security benefit.Informal numbers riseEven the proportion of wage workers covered under any social security law declined from 32.6% in 1999-2000 to 28.6% in 2004-05 and further to 26.4% in 2009-10 due to increased casual workers entering the workforce and a rise in informal sector.In this context, K.R. Shyam Sundar, labour economist and professor of human resources management at XLRI said the proposed code on Social Security and Welfare is a landmark step. This is a huge step forward towards inclusive social security coverage, Mr. Sundar said. This would be the most radical development that can happen in terms of workers benefit in India, according to him.Universal social security to all workers has been one of the main demands of the central trade unions. The idea of providing social security to all workers is good and has been our long-standing demand, said All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) national secretary D.L. Sachdev. Social security should be a fundamental right for all the citizens of the country, he said.Employers urge choiceHowever, the employer representatives are not amused by the proposed law. The only social security measure that a country of our size can afford to provide at the moment is formal jobs to the youth at a time when a million people are entering the workforce, said TeamLease Services Executive Vice President and Co-Founder Rituparna Chakraborty.This draft law will make situations worse as it will give rise to the informal sector, he said.People at the bottom of the income pillar are hostages to the social security benefits in India. Those with higher income bracket can still fend for themselves but the worry is for the people with lower incomes. Social security should be a choice that should be exercised by the employee and not a compulsion, Mr. Chakraborty said.An industry executive, on conditions of anonymity, said it would be difficult for small industries in India, which are mostly not covered under social security law at present, to provide such security to all the workers.Mr. Sundar said providing social security to all workers with the present infrastructure will be a difficult task. I do not see how effectively the households will register voluntarily towards the social security of the domestic workers as a contribution towards social security schemes will be a tax on them. Also the moment you register them, the nature of employment becomes formal and in some states households will have to provide the minimum wages to domestic helps, Mr. Sundar added.One of the major issues with the draft law is that workers in the unorganised sector mostly are daily wage earners and providing monthly contribution towards their social benefit schemes would be a big task, Mr. Sachdev said. A senior labour ministry official acknowledged this issue and said that the government can notify a different contribution period for such sectors.Collection of contribution from the self-employed and the unorganised sector will also be another grey area.The present social security system is already under tremendous pressure to increase the coverage in the formal sector. The level of services provided by Employees State Insurance Corporation also needs drastic improvement. In all these circumstances, the government is looking at covering the entire workforce, Mr. Chakraborty said.However, some trade union leaders feel implementation will not be an issue with the proposed framework under which a National Social Security Council will be set up headed by the Prime Minister to streamline, monitor and make policies.This is a historic step proposed by the government and can be fully implemented across the organised and the unorganised sector, according to RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) general-secretary Virjesh Upadhyay.Contribution to social security by households is a tax on themK.R. Shyam SundarProfessor, XLRI

NEW DELHI: A group of SRCC students spent their summer break in Lahaul and Spiti Himachal Pradesh , working on financial literacy projects for 319 families living in villages on the Indo-Tibetan border.The 15 students and three teachers are part of 'Vittshala', the financial literacy cell of the college. They taught the residents of Keylong (the administrative headquarters of Lahaul and Spiti districts) and nearby villages about the various welfare schemes of the government and how to avail of them with the right kind of documents.The students used innovative skits, street plays, door-to-door visits and monastery visits to interact with the locals to spread awareness about the importance of financial literacy. The six-day project began on May 28. The team was led by professor Anil Kumar."The cold weather and dipping oxygen levels were challenging, but the motivation to achieve the target helped the team overcome all odds. Project Pahal's objective also included empowering the families by educating the schoolchildren about the government policies. Two financial literacy drives were conducted - one in Government Senior Secondary School, Keylong and another at Udaipur Government School. The children from Class VI to X were explained about Atal Pension Yojana, Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Suraksha Bima Yojana and Jan Dhan Yojana through brochures. The key takeaway is that the children in government schools of Himachal have good potential," Kumar said.Career guidance counselling was also made available to the attendees. Apart from the schools, the team also went to nearby villages of Kardhang, Chika and Rarik. The people, mostly farmers, were made aware of crop insurance schemes, while shopkeepers and vendors were told about other schemes.

The government, which is looking to push the social security schemes under the Jan Suraksha umbrella, could bring in changes in these programmes to make them more saleable. The Prime Ministers Office along with the finance ministry is looking into the matter,a senior government official, who did not wish to be identified, told HT.Besides, it is also focussing on increasing financial literacy, especially among the unbanked population, through new programmes. Until now, over 6,58,000 individuals have participated in these financial literacy programmes held under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana and the Jan Suraksha plan.We have asked banks and insurance companies to undertake a massive drive to increase financial literacy among the unbanked population..until that is done, the social security programmes will not yield the kind of results they can, said the official quoted above.The government has also directed banks and insurance companies to speed up claim settlements for all insurance schemes linked to such plans.The government is monitoring the schemes and banks have been advised to fix settlements at the earliest with minimum documentation, an executive director with a public sector bank told HT.A few of these schemes have had some teething problems. The Atal Pension Yojana, for one, has not taken off the way it was anticipated. The scheme will be made available for a larger section of the society as the government is set to raise the upper age limit for people to 50 years from the current 40.Besides, sources also said that the maximum pension a subscriber is entitled to receive could also be increased from the current Rs 5,000.Social Security Schemes, including the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, besides APY, were launched by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May 2015.

M. Kanagavalli, Chief Executive Officer, Udupi Zilla Panchayat, said on Thursday that banks should give advances to agricultural sector in rural areas. She was presiding over the quarterly meeting of the district-level review committee for banking here.Ms. Kanagavalli said there was no point in banks opening branches in rural areas only to collect deposits. Instead of sitting in their cabins, the managers should go out and interact with farmers. The performance of banks in rural areas, especially with regard to rural credit offtake, left a lot to be desired, she said.Reviewing the district credit plan for 2014-15, Prasad Rao, Assistant General Manager, National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mangaluru, advised bankers to concentrate on lending more for the agriculture sector, particularly under term-lending. He also touched upon the area-based scheme for 2015-16 for which villages such as Mattu, Benegal and Kukkehalli had been selected.Banks should take the help of non-governmental organisations and form joint liability groups. It would be possible for branch managers to form three to four such groups. The help of business correspondents could also be taken for the purpose, he said.H.V. Bharmgoudar, regional manager of SyndicateBank, said banks had done well in enrolling customers under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) in the district. They had enrolled 1,08,814 customers under PMSBY and 53,577 customers under PMJJBY. As many as 58 persons had been enrolled under the Atal Pension Yojana till May 31.The number of women financed by banks stood at 1.14 lakh with an outstanding amount of Rs. 1,190.9 crore, which was 14.51 per cent of the total advances as against the stipulated level of 5 per cent. Education loans of Rs. 52.45 crore had been provided to 3,751 students in the fourth quarter.Under the Kisan Credit Card Scheme, there was an outstanding level of Rs. 276.24 crore covering 32,314 card holders. As many as 17,613 self-help groups had been credit-linked in the district with an outstanding loan amount of Rs. 314.32 crore, Mr. Bharmgoudar said.Banks should take the help ofnon-governmental organisations and form joint liability groups

FRESH TROUBLENew Delhi, Dec. 20: Kingfisher Airlines, owned by flamboyant liquor tycoon and member of Parliament Vijay Mallya, has not deposited with the government around Rs 153.82 crore tax it deducted over the last two years from its employees salaries.Minister of state for finance S. S. Palanimanickam told the Rajya Sabha that the airline did not deposit around Rs 53.82 crore it collected from employees in 2010-2011 and another Rs 100 crore mopped up in 2011-2012.A survey has been conducted in the case of Kingfisher Airlines, which revealed that the airline had not adhered to the TDS provisions, the minister said in a written reply.Companies are supposed to deduct tax at source from employees salaries and suppliers payments and deposit it with the income tax department.The income tax department has been able to get just Rs 21.04 crore from the airline on this account despite a commitment that the balance liabilities will be paid by the end of this fiscal year.The minister said proceedings had been initiated against the airline to get the default amount plus interest on delayed payment.The minister said Kingfisher had not defaulted on payment of dues towards provident fund of the employees.No dues of Employees Provident Fund Organisation and Employees State Insurance Corporation are pending against Kingfisher Airlines as on October 30, 2011, he said.Earlier this month, tax officials had temporarily frozen 11 bank accounts of Kingfisher Airlines after it failed to pay service tax dues.Bankers themselves are in a quandary about Kingfisher, which is reported to have a net debt of around Rs 6,500 crore.In an earlier bailout, the cash-strapped airline had converted part of the debt into shares, accounting for 23 per cent of its equity, that was picked up by the lenders in exchange of loans.Market value of the carriers shares has taken a huge beating.The Kingfisher scrip was down 1.83 per cent at Rs 21.40 on the Bombay Stock Exchange today. It had traded as high as Rs 67.70 in January.Bankers are now awaiting a report on the airlines viability before they approve a $133-million loan. SBI Capital Markets Ltd, a unit of State Bank of India, has been hired by the banking consortium to draft a report on the carriers financial outlook.The directorate general of civil aviation is also conducting a financial review of Kingfisher, an official with the regulator said.Kingfishers active fleet has shrunk to 40 from 69. The airline had to ground several Airbus planes after it was unable to meet maintenance and overhaul expenses.

The Centre needs to focus on apparel, leather and footwear sectors to boost formal and productive job creation in the economy, according to the Economic Survey.The Survey has recommended that labour and taxation reforms along with Free Trade Agreements (FTA) with the European Union and the U.K. were key to make apparel and leather sector globally competitive. Apparels and leather sectors offer tremendous opportunities for creation of jobs, especially for women Apparels are 80-fold more labour-intensive than autos and 240-fold more jobs than steel, according to the annual Survey.The Survey highlighted challenges faced by the apparel and leather sectors: logistics, labour regulations, tax and tariff policy along with disadvantages emanating from the international trading environment compared to competitor countries.Labour law reformMore FTAs, GST-induced tax rationalization, and labour law reform would add considerably to the job creation potential of the clothing and footwear sectors.The Survey called for giving workers in the apparel sector choice to decide on various statutory deductions that become de facto taxes for low-paid workers in small firms that result in a 45% lower disposable salary.The workers should decide whether they want 12% employee contribution to be deducted for provident fund from their income, whether their 12% employer contribution goes towards Employees Provident Fund scheme or National Pension System and whether their health insurance premium should go to Employees State Insurance or a private health insurance of the employers choice.It also highlighted high minimum wages as another hurdle, as overtime wage rate is twice that of ordinary wage rate, according to the Minimum Wages Act of 1948.According to the Survey, overtime wage rate is twice that of ordinary wage rate in these sectors

A firm supplying manpower to power distribution company Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) was booked for fraud on the complaint of a discom official, police said.The firm allegedly did not pay its employees the provident fund and insurance dues worth Rs 8 lakh that it had collected from the discom.In the complaint, Manoj Yadav, sub-divisional officer (SDO) of sub-urban division, DHBVN, said the discom had hired a number of data operators through a firm, Priya Electronics, based in Hisar. The firm provided skilled and unskilled manpower as assigned by the discom.The tender remained with the contractor firm from January 2008 to July 2011. As per conditions of the contact, the discom had to pay the firm an amount equivalent to the prescribed salaries of data entry operators along with other liabilities such as employees provident fund (EPF), employees state insurance (ESI) and service tax.The amount paid to the contractor against EPF and ESI had to be deposited in the accounts of employees through the department concerned, the complaint mentioned.While conducting the audit, the EPF and ESI departments pointed out that Rs 6,92,260 and Rs 1,06,811 had not been deposited in the department by the contractor.Yadav said the firm pocketed Rs 7,99,071 instead of paying the employees. He noticed the pending file and after a probe referred it to the police for filing an FIR. An FIR was registered against the contractor firm at the Sector 40 police station under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (fraud) of the Indian Penal Code.Assistant sub-inspector Naresh Kumar, the investigating officer, said officials of the firm would be called for to record their statements and appropriate action would be initiated against them.

Union Minister for Labour and Employment Bandaru Dattatreya has announced proposals for upgrading the Employees State Insurance Corporations (ESIC) dispensary at the New Bhoiguda Kaman to a 200-bedded hospital and for a new ESI Dental College to be opened at Nacharam. Sharing the details at a press conference here at the Employees Provident Fund Organisations regional office, Mr. Dattatreya said both the proposals are under discussion now. Plans are being drawn to upgrade the dispensary at Pydi Bheemavaram in Andhra Pradesh too. Upgradation proposals are also in the offing for the hospitals at Ramagundam and Tirupati.

SyndicateBank, the lead bank of the district, will hold camps in Asaigoli and Mudipu near Mangaluru on Sunday to enrol people for three social security schemes launched by the Prime Minister. Other banks namely Union Bank, Canara Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Oriental Bank of Commerce, State Bank of Travancore and Karnataka Bank too will take part in the camps.The SyndicateBank is holding the camp in association with Jaya Manasa Trust. The camps will be held at Manasa Complex in Asaigoli and Kaveri Complex in Mudipu between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.The camps are being held to facilitate enrolment of people for the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.Talking to reporters here on Wednesday, District Lead Bank Manager Prabhu Alagawadi said there had been a good response from the people to the three schemes. On the day of announcement of the three schemes on May 9, 1.2 lakh people enrolled in different banks in the district. By holding the camps, the bank was trying to reach out to more people, including those who did not have a bank account.We will help them open bank accounts at the camps, he said.K. Narendranath Kamath, Deputy General Manager, regional office, SyndicateBank, said 39,000 applications had been received at the banks 80 branches. Mr. Kamath said they would decide to hold more such events in other parts of the district depending on the response of people for the two camps.A. Chandrahas Shetty, managing trustee of Manasa Trust, said the two camps were being held to ease the pressure on banks in enrolling people during banking hours.It is to help people enrol into the three social security schemes launched by the Prime Minister

As many as 23 lakh bank account holders across Telangana have enrolled under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana in just over a week of the schemes trial run.Announcing this at the Telangana launch of the two schemes along with the Atal Pension Yojana on Saturday, CGM Retail Banking of State Bank of Hyderabad V. Viswanathan said SBH did 13 lakh of the 23 lakh enrolments.Apart from Jan Dhan account holders, other account holders also opted for the schemes.He was speaking at a programme, in which Union HRD Minister Smriti Irani distributed certificates of insurance and passbooks to a few beneficiaries.The programme in Hyderabad was part of a nationwide launch of the three schemes in 115 cities conceived to improve financial security of the common man. Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the schemes in Kolkata, which was telecast live at the meeting.Ms. Irani said the government was with the common man and as a pointer to this had unveiled the schemes.Under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, an accident insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh is available on annual payment of a premium of Rs. 12 for those aged 18-70 years.The premium under Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana (life insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh) works out to less than Re.1 per day, at Rs. 330. It is for account holders aged 18-50 years.In Atal Pension Yojana, the monthly pension will range from Rs.1,000 to Rs. 5,000. Telangana Finance Minister Eatela Rajender said 63 lakh accounts were opened under the Jan Dhan Yojana in the State as against a target of 60 lakh. Banks, he said, were reorienting their strategy to include the common man.

The prime minister Narendra Modi announced the Jeevan Jyoti insurance scheme, which will provide a one-year insurance cover for death, renewable annually.In Kolkata, PM Narendra Modi launched three social security schemes that were mooted in this years budget. The Suraksha Bima Yojana will provide a renewable one-year accidental death-cum-disability insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh to persons between the ages of 18 and 70 for an annual premium of Rs 12. The Jivan Jyoti Bima Yojana similarly aims at providing life insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh for an annual subscription of Rs 330 to persons between 18 and 50 years of age.Share This Article Related Article Piyush Goyal to inaugurate Mudra Loan camp in Varanasi on WednesdayPiyush Goyal to inaugurate Mudra Loan camp in Varanasi on Wednesday Counting every household inCounting every household in 300 claims for PMs insurance plans till nowWorking for WelfareWorking for Welfare Modi in Kolkata: Will launch schemes and meet ailing Maharaj, CMModi in Kolkata: Will launch schemes and meet ailing Maharaj, CM Centre goes on overdrive to sell insurance coverLastly, the Atal Pension Yojana for persons between 18 and 40 years of age would, depending on the plan opted for, ensure that the subscriber gets a monthly pension of between Rs 1,000 and Rs 5,000 after turning 60. In the one-week trial period prior to the launch, 5.05 crore people have reportedly already been enrolled for the schemes. Coupled with the 125 crore new bank accounts that had been opened under the Jan Dhan Yojana by January, the Modi government has managed to make impressive progress  notwithstanding the dormancy of many of these new accounts  in the project of financial inclusion and social security provision.Given the poor penetration of pension and insurance  only 4 per cent of Indians have accident insurance, 20 per cent have life insurance, and only 11 per cent of workers are subscribed to a pension scheme  this project is an imperative. Indeed, the macro gains from the spread of insurance and pension should not be underestimated  productivity as well as economic and social stability improve in less uncertain, more equitable environments. But importantly, the government is yet to make public the nitty gritty of the schemes funding. And even though they should not be viewed as dole  one has to check into them and pay a subscription fee  the government will need to work out how to finance their subsidy component. Saddling banks and insurers with a prohibitive unfunded mandate  or the Centre taking on an unsustainable subsidy burden  would be unwise.Equally, the government must learn from the failure of past experiments and projects. For instance, why didnt the UPAs Swavalamban pension scheme take off? And how can an EPFO-sized hole in the balance sheet be avoided? But overall, a gradual shift away from state intervention in markets towards a strong social security architecture is the way to go.For all the latest Opinion News, download Indian Express App

GeneralKerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment: Chief Minister V. S. Achuthanandan inaugurates 23 {+r} {+d} Kerala Science Congress, Centre for Earth Science Studies, 9.30 a.m.Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute: Chief Minister V. S. Achuthanandan lays the foundation stone for a mini hydel project for the institute, planting of trees on State Highways and releases a book on Bamboos, TBGRI premises, Palode, 4 p.m.Kerala Chamber of Commerce and Industry: Minister for Labour and Excise P.K. Gurudasan inaugurates workshop on Employees State Insurance and Employees Provident Fund, Hotel Maurya Rajadhani, Statue, 9.30 a.m.Kerala Paravar Service Society: Ports and Youth Affairs Minister V. Surendran Pillai inaugurates annual conference and public meeting, Hassan Marikar Gall, 2.30 p.m.Kerala Government Medical Officers Association: Mayor K. Chandrika inaugurates 44 {+t} {+h} State Annual Conference, IMA Headquarters, Chakka, 9 a.m.Indian Institute of Architects: Installation ceremony of new office bearers, Hotel SP Grand Holidays, 6.30 p.m.Christ Nagar Higher Secondary School, Kowdiar: Ports and Youth Affairs Minister V. Surendran Pillai inaugurates Annual Day celebrations, School premises, 5 p.m.Department of Technical Education: National Technological Congress-Kerala, College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, 9 a.m.Indian Agricultural Association: Agriculture Congress for Children, Public Library Hall, 9 a.m.P.A. Aziz College of Engineering, Karakulam: Job Fair, 10 a.m.Kerala Building Designers Organisation: Public Relations Department director M. Nandakumar inaugurates seminar on the Relevance of Vasthu Sashtram in modern day construction, Press Club Hall, 10 a.m.Travancore Natural History Society: Exhibition of photographs under the theme Bio-diversity of the Western Ghats-a photographic overview, Museum auditorium, 10 a.m.University of Kerala: Conference on Comparative Cultural Studies: Towards New Post Colonial Paradigms, Centre for Comparative Literature, Kerala University Campus, Kariyavattom, 9.30 a.m.National Institute of Social Defence: K.V. Krishnadas, retired professor of medicine, Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, inaugurates sensitisation programme on Health and Allied Issues of Senior Citizens, Lions Centre, Jawahar Nagar, 9.30 a.m.Keraleeyam: Release of special issue of Keraleeyam magazine and discussion on State and Terrorism, Press Club Hall, 4 p.m.CULTUREMargi: Staging of Sakthi Bhadran's Aishwarya Chooda Mani, Margi Natya Griham, Fort, 5.30 p.m.Indian Council for Cultural Relations: Kalamandalam Girija Vijayan performs Nangiarkoothu, Theerthapada Mandapam, East Fort, 6.30 p.m.Sri Swati Tirunal Sangeeta Sabha: Vechor Sankar performs carnatic vocal concert, Karthika Thirunal Theatre, 6 p.m.Adoor Bhasi Cultural Forum: Screening of television production, Close and Hearts, The Capital, Old Geeth Hotel, 6 p.m.RELIGIONSree Seetha Rama Bhaktha Sabha: Ekadasi Special Abhisekham and Abhang Bhajan, Sree Panudrangan Temple, Ayodhya Nagar, Sreevaraham, 6.30 p.m.Sree Ramakrishna Ashrama, Sasthamangalam: Swami Amithabhanandaji speaks on Swami Vivekananda: Life and Teachings, 5.30 p.m.Attukal Bhagavathy Temple: Kalababhisekham, 7 a.m, Bhagavathyseva, 7.15 p.m.

RANCHI: The state government along with the Centre launched Prime Minister's ambitious social security schemes in the capital on Saturday.The hall at a five-star hotel in Ranchi was decorated in exactly the same manner as Nazrul Manch in Kolkata for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to launch the schemes.Governor Syed Ahmed, chief guest and chairperson of the event, described Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Yojana (PMJJY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) as major initiatives towards providing social security to the poor. "These schemes are more relevant for states like Jharkhand, which has a huge number of workers in the unorganized sector" he said.The state government along with the public and private sector banks managed to enroll 14 lakh people in these schemes, well before it was officially launched simultaneously across 115 cities of the country.Organized by the Bank of India, the convener of the State-Level Bankers' Committee (SLBC) in Jharkhand, the event was supervised by CMD of the bank V R Aiyar, who shared details of the pension and insurance scheme with everyone present. Aiyar said all the banks have been directed to accept filled-up forms from the account holders and bring in place the facility of auto debit from their respective account to continue the schemes. "Account holders need to express their consent for a particular scheme and remaining formalities will be carried out by the banks," she said.

NEW DELHI: The government has made biometric identification Aadhaar mandatory for all post office deposits, PPF, the National Savings Certificate scheme and Kisan Vikas Patra.Existing depositors have been given time till December 31, 2017 to provide the 12-digit unique identification number.Ministry of Finance has issued four separate Gazette notifications making Aadhaar mandatory for opening all post office deposit accounts, Public Provident Fund (PPF), National Savings Certificate scheme and Kisan Vikas Patra deposits."Provided that where Aadhaar number has not been assigned, the depositor shall submit proof of application of enrolment for Aadhaar," the notification dated September 29 said.Existing depositors who have not provided Aadhaar number at the time of application for such deposit "shall submit his Aadhaar number to the post office savings bank or deposit office concerned, on or before December 31, 2017," it added.The government has insisted on quoting Aadhaar for bank deposits, obtaining mobile phone and several other utilities to weed out benami deals and blackmoney.Last month, it extended the deadline for obtaining Aadhaar for availing government schemes and subsidies by three months to December 31. Earlier, those who did not have Aadhaar were asked to procure it by September 30.As many as 135 schemes (of 35 ministries) including the free cooking gas (LPG) to poor women, kerosene and fertiliser subsidy, targeted public distribution system (PDS) and MGNREGA will be covered by the extension."As a result of the review of welfare schemes covered and to provide the benefits of such schemes to all eligible beneficiaries of the scheme, it has been decided to further extend the stipulated date in all such notifications up to December 31, 2017," an order dated September 26 said.The extension would also apply for Employees' Pension Scheme of 1995, scholarships, housing subsidy benefit, stipend to SC/ST trainees for coaching guidance and vocational training, stipend to handicapped and Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana.Besides, it would be applicable for national apprenticeship and skill development schemes, crop insurance schemes, interest subvention scheme, scholarship and fellowship schemes, various education programmes such as midday meal for children and Atal Pension Yojana."It is hereby clarified that this extension shall only apply to those beneficiaries who are not assigned Aadhaar number or those who have not yet enrolled for Aadhaar. Such beneficiaries are required to enrol for Aadhaar by December 31, 2017 and provide their Aadhaar number or enrolment ID," it had said.There will be no denial of services in the interim period.

NEW DELHI: Amidst mounting bad loans, India's Finance Minister Arun Jaitley will hold a meeting with the heads of public sector banks on September 16 to find ways to deal with the situation."The Finance Minister will review the first quarter performance of public sector banks and financial institutions on September 16," sources said.Besides, he will also discuss credit growth and bad loan situation, they said, adding that the various recovery measures by banks and the legislative steps taken by the government to expedite recovery are also part of the agenda.The banks have stepped up efforts as far as recovery of bad loans is concerned, the sources added.Gross NPA of the public sector banks have surged from 5.43 per cent (INR 2.67 lakh crore) in 2014-15 to 9.32 per cent (INR 4.76 lakh crore) in 2015-16.As per the latest Financial Stability Report by RBI, the Gross Non-Performing Assets ratio for public sector banks may go up to 10.1 per cent by March 2017 under the baseline scenario.Many banks including Bank of India, Dena Bank, and Central Bank of India, reported losses for the quarter ended June 30, due to a sharp jump in provisions for NPAs on account of an asset quality review mandated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in December.At the same time, a number of banks including the country's largest lender SBI witnessed a 78 per cent drop in consolidated profit to INR 1,046 crore as against INR 4,714 crore profit in the same quarter a year ago. Besides, Bank of Baroda, Andhra Bank and Union Bank of India among others posted massive decline in profit.In a bid to shore up cash-strapped public sector banks, the government last month announced infusion of INR 22,915 crore capital in 13 lenders including State Bank of India (SBI) and Indian Overseas Bank to revive loan growth that has hit a two-decade low.This is the first tranche of capital infusion for the current fiscal and more funds would be provided in future depending on the performance of PSBs.In all Rs 70,000 crore in capital is to be invested over four years to contain risks in the banking industry.Besides, the meeting will take stock of various schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY).Jaitley will also review the progress made with regard to Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency (MUDRA) and Stand Up India programme, the sources said.

The Monsoon Session of Parliament begins next month and two key labour reform bills may not come up in it, while legislations on three populist measures could be introduced. The Monsoon Session of Parliament begins next month and two key labour reform bills may not come up in it, while legislations on three populist measures could be introduced.Two key labour reform bills may not come up in the Monsoon Session of Parliament beginning next month while legislations on three populist measures could be introduced.Progress is slow on key bills like Industrial Relations Code and Small Factories Bill, which are aimed at improving ease of doing business in the country, sources said.The Labour Ministry is going slow on labour reforms in view of the governments focus on job creation and safeguarding workers rights, a source said.Watch Video: Whats making newsThe source further said the Ministry is unlikely to move those bills which would improve ease of doing business and in the Monsoon Session they would rather push for passage the bills that seek to provide more facilities and benefits to workers and safeguard their rights.The Ministry will push bills including Maternity Benefit Bill, Employees Compensation Bill, Employees Provident Fund Amendment Bill and Child Labour Bill.The Maternity Benefit Bill seeks to enhance maternity leave to 26 weeks from existing 12 weeks. The Employees Compensation Bill aims to enhance maximum compensation amount in case of any injury to workers without going to high courts.The EPF Bill seeks to reduce the threshold for coverage of firms under the social security scheme run by retirement fund body EPFO to 10 workers from existing 20 workers. This is expected to cover 50 lakh more workers under EPFO schemes.The Child Labour Bill, which is already pending in Parliament, can be passed during this session. It seeks to prohibit employing children below 14 years in all occupations.The source said progress is slow on bills that have been bone of contention and are being opposed by trade unions. These include the Industrial Relations Code and the Small Factories Act.The source further said the Industrial Relations Code Bill is still stuck in Law Ministry for approval while Small Factories Bill was sent to Cabinet months ago for its nod.The Industrial Code Bill combines Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, Trade Unions Act, 1926, and the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946.The provision relating to easing retrenchment, lay off and closure norms and tougher rules for forming unions in the proposed bill has led to uproar by central trade unions. They went on nationwide strike on September 2, 2015 to protest against proposed amendments to labour laws to improve ease of doing business including through Industrial Code and Small Factories Bill.The Small Factories Bill aims to improve ease of doing business and create an ecosystem for encouraging small businesses. It seeks to exempt small units with less than 40 workers from tedious compliance of 14 labour laws including Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act and Employees State Insurance (ESI)Act.As per the Bill, such units can buy health insurance and provident funds products available in the market instead of subscribing to the mandatory social sector schemes of Employees State Insurance Corporation and Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO).For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App

NEW DELHI: Finance minister Arun Jaitley will review the performance of public-sector banks (PSBs) on Monday here, amid mounting pressure to resolve the vexed issue of massive toxic assets that have eroded the banks ability to lend, hurting investments.Major issues to be discussed in the meeting include non-performing assets (NPAs) of PSBs, status of credit to small and medium enterprises, StandUp India (launched to support entrepreneurship among women and Scheduled Caste & Scheduled Tribe communities) and Mudra Yojana (through which the government provides funding to the non-corporate small business sector).The meeting also assumes significance as it will be the first after last months promulgation of the Ordinance amending the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.NPAs reached nine per cent of total advances by September 2016, doubling to Rs 5.02 lakh crore from Rs 2.67 lakh crore a year earlier. Toxic loans of PSBs rose by over Rs 1 lakh crore to Rs 6.06 lakh crore during April-December 2016-17.Taking a sample of 39 top banks, CARE Ratings has estimated that NPAs accounted for Rs 6,97,409 crore  or 9.3 per cent of their advances  as of December 2016.The one-day meeting will also focus on financial inclusion and literacy, review of the performance of social security schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY).Other issues like cyber security, digitalisation of banking transactions, rural development, farm credit and education loan will also be discussed.While inaugurating the one-week teachers workshop at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi on Sunday, Jaitley said the finance ministry is debating the two suggestions made by the Economic Survey 2017  Universal Basic Income and creation of bad bank  to deal with the unacceptable levels of bad loans. He, however, said the idea of UBI does not seem to be a feasible policy option at this point of time given the political limitations.Allocation of subsidies remains a challengeOn innovative ideas of the Economic Survey, FM Arun Jaitley on Sunday said it remains a challenge on how to allocate subsidies in a targeted manner.This year also, it (Survey) initiated a very important idea as to how do we subsidise substitute the entire set of subsidies we want to replace it by a Universal Basic Income (to a defined section of poor) and that UBI expedites their pulling out of the present state of poverty that they live in. Jaitley also emphasised policy makers to continuously upgrade their knowledge on different subjects.

Govt committed to roll out OROP,but seeks time to implement:PMNew Delhi, May 31, 2015, (PTI) 12:41 ISTPrime Minister Narendra Modi today said his government is committed to implement the One Rank, One Pension (OROP) scheme for ex-servicemen, but sought time to resolve its complexities.Attacking the previous governments for "playing politics" over the issue for the past 40 years, he said OROP was "a complex issue, a vexed issue. You have been patient for 40 years. Give me some time to address it."In his 'Mann ki Baat' radio address, Modi said various departments were working to resolve the complexities as "it is not a simple matter" and added that "running commentary" through the media on the details of the progress will not help.Lauding the services of the defence personnel, he said he could understand their problems as he was talking to them "as an individual rather than as a Prime Minister"."We are committed to OROP. .... Is it not a fact that for 40 years, this matter has been pending? ... No government in the past has implemented it. Political elements have played games with you on the issue. You have faith in us," Modi said in a 25-minute speech.OROP has been a long-standing demand of over two million ex-servicemen of India. It seeks to ensure that a uniform pension for the defence personnel retiring in the same rank with the same length of service, irrespective of their date of retirement.Referring to the completion of one year of the BJP-led NDA rule, the Prime Minister said the entire country has debated on the positives and negatives of it. "It is important to known what have been the drawbacks," he said, adding that many sections have also praised his government's achievements in the past 12 months.The Prime Minister also spoke of the recent launch of three social major security schemes for the poor, saying that over 8.5 crore people have joined the schemes within 20 days of their launch. The schemes are Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.Highlighting that these schemes entailed minimal premiums, Modi gave the example of the Prime Minister Suraksha Bima Yojana where a beneficiary has to spend just one rupee per month or Rs 12 a year to avail its benefits.He exhorted the poor to join these schemes in large numbers and reap the benefits.Recalling that the United Nations had declared June 21 as the International Yoga Day, the Prime Minister asked the people to practice and promote it. "If you don't know about it, read books on Yoga and explain it to more people."He said it was a matter of pride for India that 177 countries adopted "our proposal within a short span of 100 days" to observe June 21, the longest day of the year, as the universal Yoga day. "Yoga has become a catalytic agent to unite the world," he said.Modi also congratulated students who cleared the various board exams recently and suggested them to choose their careers in such a manner that would benefit the country.Referring to those who were unsuccessful, he asked them to take their "failure as an opportunity" to bounce back and cited the example of former President APJ Abdul Kalam who had failed in the examination to be become a pilot which he had dreamt of."However, his failure gave him such a huge opportunity that he not only became a scientist but also rose to become the President of the country," the Prime Minister said.He urged the students to chose from a variety of subjects available, saying "the country not only needs good teachers, but also army personnel as well as sportspersons."Referring to the continued heatwave across the country, he urged people to take precautionary measures, especially for children.Modi also spoke on the recently-launched Kisan Channel on Doordharshan, saying that not only the farmers, but also fishermen and those engaged in animal husbandry, would gain from it.

BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday insured all staff at his official residence and their family members under Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY). Chouhan launched a special campaign from his official residence to cover all eligible members of his staff under PMSBY, Prime Minister Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Atal Pension schemes.Chief minister presented his staff members and their families certificates of insurance under these schemes. State government claimed Chouhan is the first chief minister who has taken such an initiative ensuring coverage of his staff members under national insurance schemes.Speaking to his staff during distribution of certificates, chief minister Chouhan expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on behalf of citizens of Madhya Pradesh. Describing these schemes as transformational, he said that these will bring needy families under social safety net. He added that social security schemes with such a dynamic vision were never designed earlier. All eligible persons would be covered under these benevolent schemes, he said.Chouhan urged all able citizens to ensure that no one is left uncovered. He asked them to keep informing family members, relatives, friends and bring them under the social safety net. This is part of our national duty, he claimed.Chief minister and his wife Sadhna Singh Chouhan filled insurance forms to get insurance cover. He informed that the state-wide campaign to enrol eligible citizens is starting from May 20 in which every district will organize at least 30 to 40 special camps. A state release informed that in the past ten days nearly 32 lakh registrations have already been done.Bhopal's Lok Sabha MP Alok Sanjar, MLA Rameshwar Sharma, general managers of State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, Central Bank of India, Apex bank, Union Bank of India, Allahabad Bank, Punjab National Bank, HDFC Bank were present on the occasion including senior officers of New India Insurance, Life Insurance Corporation and Directorate of Institutional Finance.

By Express News ServiceNEW DELHI: Within a week of Finance Minister Piyush Goyal announcing a new pension scheme for the unorganised sector, a notification from the labour minister has put a number of riders, leaving a major chunk of the intended beneficiaries out.According to the Ministry of Labour and Employment notification issued on February 7, an unorganised worker above 18 and below 40 years, with a monthly income less than Rs 15,000, can join the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan 2019 scheme. This allows for a Rs 3,000 per month pension from the age of 60 years, starting February 15. This scheme is open to those with saving accounts and Aadhaar. It said persons covered under National Pension Scheme, contributed by the Central Government or Employees State Insurance Corporation Scheme under the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948, or Employees Provident Fund Scheme under the Employees Provident Fund, cant join the scheme.Another rider is that only spouses can be the nominee and can avail 50 per cent of the pension if the beneficiary dies. After the death of the subscriber and spouse, the corpus will be credited back to the Pension Fund. The notification also said that if an eligible subscriber defaults in the payment of the contribution, he shall be allowed to regularise his contribution by paying the entire outstanding dues along with interest at the rate determined by the Ministry of Labour and Employment from time to time.The notification also has a harsh exit clause. In case an eligible subscriber exits this scheme within a period of less than 10 years from the date of joining the scheme, then the share of contribution by him only will be returned to him with savings bank rate of interest payable thereon, the notification added.Experts claim that the notification will leave a majority of people out. I do not think this is a labour friendly initiative, a member of All India Central Council of Trade Unions said.

New Delhi, Feb. 23: President Pranab Mukherjee today stressed the need for "debate and discussion" and "not disruption or obstruction" as he reminded parliamentarians on the first day of the budget session that the two Houses reflected the "supreme will of the people". Delivering the opening day's customary address to the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha on behalf of the Narendra Modi government this morning, Mukherjee quoted from the Rig Veda to underline his appeal. "' Aa No Bhadra Kratvo Yantu Vishwataha' - let noble thoughts come from all directions, should be the spirit behind debate in this temple of democracy. Being a member of this great institution bestows great honour as well as important responsibilities," the President said, urging members of Parliament to "discharge their solemn responsibilities in a spirit of cooperation and mutual accommodation". "Nationalism", the political flavour of the season, featured in the address in a philosophical context drawn from Subhas Chandra Bose and the Bhagavad Gita and not the RSS, the ruling BJP's ideological mentor. "We owe a great debt to our freedom fighters. It is time to repay that debt, by building the country that they envisioned and fought for. In the words of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, 'Nationalism is inspired by the highest ideals of the human race, Satyam (truth), Shivam (the virtuous and the divine) and Sundaram (beauty)'. Let us embrace those ideals...," the President said. The President's joint address, delivered once a year, is a statement of the government's policy of which, as the constitutional head, he is the "mouthpiece", according to a Rajya Sabha manual. The address is drafted by the government, based on materials supplied by different ministries and departments. Therefore, it is not the President but the government that is responsible for the contents of the address. The speech emphasised the Centre's "pro-poor" thrust, encapsulated in Jana Sangh ideologue Deendayal Upadhyaya's concept of integral humanism, underpinned on " Antyodaya", "where the empowering rays of opportunity reach the last person". The President also quoted Mahatma Gandhi and B.R. Ambedkar to emphasise that the government's "overriding goal" was to eliminate poverty. "The poorest of the poor are entitled to the first charge on the nation's resources," Mukherjee said, adding the government's focus was the "poor and the backward". Among the several schemes for "financial inclusion and social security" the address listed were the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Beema Yojana and the Atal Pension Yojana. Lest the poverty leitmotif crowded out the other aspects of "development" and "governance", the address also dwelt on "massive employment generation" being a top goal for youths, apart from schemes like the "Make in India" initiative, "Ease of doing Business", the "Startup India" campaign and "Skill India".

Coimbatore Corporation Contractors Welfare Association said that it would move the Madras High Court against the State Government for a direction to implement a few of their demands.Addressing reporters here recently, the Association members said that they had earlier moved the Court for a direction to the Government.Based on the Court order, the Public Works Department Secretary S.K. Prabakar convened a meeting to hear their suggestions or grievances.It had urged the Government to include Employees State Insurance and Employees Provident Fund charges in the Schedule of Rate (the basis on which various government departments arrive at cost of works for floating tender), bear the cost of seigniorage and toll charges, pay for the labour welfare fund, fix minimum contractor profit at 10% and a few others.The Government had agreed to a few demands and that included directions to Assistant Directors of Mines in districts to identify new quarries with good yields and delete low-yielding quarries for blue metals so that distance and transport charges could be reworked.The Government had also clarified that it bore the cost of labour welfare fund and did not deduct from the contract amount and agreed to make provisions for repairing damaged roads (patches) before levelling those for a fresh coat of bitumen.The Association said that the Government had, however, rejected their demand for its departments bearing the seigniorage charges and toll fee saying it was contractors responsibility and that the bid that they submitted for works ought to include such costs.For those of its demands that the Government had not conceded, the Association said it would move the court.The Association also spoke about the problems they faced from people masquerading as Right to Information Act activists. In the guise of seeking information of public interest, a few people sought personal information.And then they used the information to blackmail its members, the Association said and added that to face such activists, the Association would initiate action.In response to questions from reporters, the Association's secretary K. Chandraprakash denied that he was related to Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani and added that he would file criminal defamation suits against those media organisations and activists who tried to link his firm with the Minister.

PANAJI: After much promise, the government couldnt take a big leap in the IT sector. However, while the Goa IT Investment Policy has not taken off, there has been some development on the industrial front.With unemployment figures for the state hovering between 7.5% and 8.8%, the government is trying to incentivise companies that hire Goans and has proposed to subsidise salaries paid to Goan employees, offering to reimburse up to Rs 7,000 per Goan employed by these firms. Only new companies, or those that began after 2007, but did not avail of benefits, can apply for the scheme, provided 80% of their staff is Goan.In December 2017, chief minister Manohar Parrikar, who also holds the industry portfolio, gave his approval for the incentive, along with six other schemes, which will be offered under the Goa State Incentives to Encourage Investments Scheme 2017.The state will monitor the scheme by cross-checking the employee rolls submitted by each company with the Employees State Insurance department and Employees Provident Fund Organisation.The scheme also offers benefits to those companies whose employee rolls comprise 60-80% Goans. The incentives will be calculated on pro-rata basis, but less than 60% (local employment) and they get nothing, a source said, adding that this is in keeping with the governments slogan Goem, Goemkar and Goemkarponn.The state has already announced the startup policy.Under the chairmanship of Glenn Ticlo , the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) has introduced the new Transfer and Sublease Regulations 2018, which makes it easier for entrepreneurs to sublease unutilised parts of industry plots.To create a hassle-free interface for entrepreneurs, the corporation also plans to create an online interface that will enable entrepreneurs to apply for plots, transfer plots, etc.

Seeking solution:Leaders of the Employees Provident Fund Staff Union explaining their problems to Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment K. Suresh in Hyderabad on Friday. Photo: Mohammed YousufThe medical college being set up by the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) at Sanathnagar here is expected to start functioning from 2014 academic year, Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment K. Suresh said here on Friday.Addressing a press conference after a reviewing various programmes of his Ministry with officials here, he said construction of the college building and a 500-bedded hospital was expected to be completed by June this year. Following inspection and approval by the Medical Council of India (MCI), the college would start functioning from next academic year. The medical college would have an attached nursing college. It was proposed to start a dental college too at the same place, he added.Mr. Suresh ESIC also decided to establish a 100-bed hospital at Vizianagaram with an investment of more than Rs.100 crore. A request for starting the hospital has been made by the Congress MP, Botcha Jhansi and the workers of the area.He said ESIC would also start five hemo-dialysis centres in the Statetwo at Sanathnagar hospital and one each at ESIC hospitals at Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam and Tirupati.ESIC hospital at Vijayawada would be inaugurated in April third week. The hospital at Visakhapatnam would be taken up after concluding a lease agreement with Vizag Port Trust. A 100-bed hospital would be coming up at Tirupati with an investment of Rs.300 crore. The hospital would be run by the State authorities while the funding was being done by ESIC.Pension hikeMr. Suresh announced the Union Cabinet would shortly clear proposal for enhancing EPF pension to Rs.1,000 from the present Rs.200/Rs.300 a month.The Union Minister said another proposal to enhance the salary ceiling for PF contribution from Rs.6,500 to Rs.15000 was also under consideration. He said the issue would be discussed by the Central Board of Trustees of EPF at its meeting on February 25.The Minister appealed to all trade unions to withdraw the call for a two-day nationwide strike on February 20 and 21.

Collector S. Jayandhi on Wednesday asked the people to utilise the Prime Ministers Insurance and Pension schemes.Presiding over a function organised by the Lead Bank, bankers of Karur District and LIC of India here, she said the recent schemes such as Pradhan Manthri Jeevan Jothi Bima Yojana, Pradhan Manthri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana, the Pradhan Manthri Mudra Yojana have received good response from the public in general. The poor people could get high value insurance coverage with nominal premium. Hence, the people should come forward to utilise the opportunity.I. Chandrasekar, Lead District Manager, A. Parthiban, Assistant General Manger, NABARD, and Sivanandham, Chief Manager, State Bank of India, spoke.Short films on the schemes were screened. As many as 700 persons enrolled themselves in the schemes. More than 23 banks participated in the meeting.

Union Labour Minister Oscar Fernandes has launched a unified single web portal to present labour laws, and have a consolidated information of labour inspection and its enforcement.The web portal will enhance convenience of reporting, transparency in labour inspection and monitoring of labour inspections based on key performance indices and provide an effective grievance redress system hyperlinked with the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances portal, he said.To begin with, the Ministry has selected the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) organisation, the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) and the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) to join the portal.Other statutes and State governments can also join the portal subsequently, he said.The portal is being developed by the National Informatics Centre.  PTI

MUMBAI: A recent report commissioned by the government and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has called for greater incentives to the private sector to boost employment for persons with disabilities (PWDs). Incentives such as grants can be used by the employer to make the workplace more accessible and for providing assistive technologies such as voice software or training.The findings and suggestions of the report, 'Livelihood opportunities for PWDs', are expected to be included in the 12th Five Year Plan (2012-17), which aims to be more inclusive. The government sector has a mandatory quota of 3% for PWDs. For the private sector, the PWD Act, 1995, provides for incentives if at least 5% of the workforce comprises PWDs. Here, the government makes payment of the employer's contributions to the Employees Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance for the first three years as an incentive for PWD employees earning up to Rs 25,000 per month.Some countries have a mandatory PWD job quota for the private sector with penal provisions - Germany (5%), Austria (4%), Poland (6%), Italy (a sliding scale of up to 7%), Spain (2%) and Japan (1.6%). Others like the USA rely on lucrative tax credit incentive schemes. Some, such as Japan use a carrot-and-stick approach and grants are also available to the private sector.However, experts do not favour a quota regime because of perceived practical difficulties and its failure in the government sector. "There may be practical difficulties for PWDs to execute certain tasks, which would then lead employers to reserve certain types of jobs only for PWDs, leading creation of the kind of stereotypes which we are fighting against," said Nirmita Naraimhan, advocate and program manager, Centre for Internet & Society."Only a handful of companies employ PWDs. To boost private sector participation, the PWD employment incentive target (currently 5% of the workforce) must be realistic. Second, lucrative incentives could be a solution," said Javed Abidi, director, NCPEDP (National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People).At this juncture, it is largely corporate philosophy that results in PWD hiring, especially in the hospitality and IT/ITeS sector. Cafe Coffee Day (CCD) has around 150 'Silent Brewmasters'. Other staff members are trained in the basics of sign language for optimal team functioning. "CCD's Silent Brewmasters specialize in brewing because of their heightened sense of smell and vision, thereby ensuring the most visually appealing presentation of our coffees. They are each cafe's best quality controllers," said K Ramakrishnan, president (Marketing), CCD."We have 110 PWDs in our team (5% of the total work force across 18 hotels) who are hearing and speech impaired. Initially, they functioned in back office operations, but some innovation such as numbered menu cards helps them interact with customers and results in an overall good factor," said Patu Keswani, chairman and MD, The Lemon Tree Hotel Company.Nasscom Foundation helps create a proper ecosystem. "Not only are PWDs placed in the IT-ITES sector, but the companies are helped in undertaking accessibility audits, motivated to generate accessible tools and help others get access to such tools," explained Rita Soni, CEO Nasscom Foundation.E-Vindhya, where 95% of the workforce comprises PWDs and the rest are hired based on their sensitivity towards their PWD colleagues, is perhaps an exception. But other companies are also adopting an inclusive approach. At MindTree and Mphasis, at least 1% of the workforce comprises PWDs. Infosys BPO, Aegis, Wipro, and IBM are some other companies that adopt an integrated approach in dealing with PWD employees.

Nagpur: The launch of the Jan Dhan Yojana will take place in the city on May 9 at Vasantrao Deshpande Hall. Guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule will kick off the scheme. Prime minister Narendra Modi will launch the scheme in Kolkata and address the nation. His address will be telecast live at Deshpande Hall between 5pm and 6pm.Addressing a press conference on Thursday, divisional commissioner Anup Kumar said three schemes would be launched under the scheme. "They include Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana. The first is a life insurance scheme, the second an accident insurance one and third is a pension scheme," he said.The first scheme will be implemented in association with Sudlife Insurance Company and the second with New India Insurance Company."The eligibility conditions for the pension scheme are the most stringent. The beneficiary should be Aadhar card holder but should not be a taxpayer," Kumar said.The life insurance and accident insurance cover is up to Rs two lakh. The annual premium for the first scheme is Rs330 and the second is Rs12. The pension amount will be in proportion to the premium paid by the beneficiary.

Finance Minister Arun Jaitley will meet heads of PSU banks tomorrow to discuss the issue of non-performing assets (NPAs) and the steps being taken by them to expedite the recovery of bad loans which have crossed Rs 6 lakh crore.Besides, the minister will review the financial performance of all the public sector banks (PSBs) at the meeting, the first between Jaitley and them in the current fiscal.The meeting also assumes significance as it will be the first after last month's promulgation of the ordinance amending the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The government had through this ordinance empowered the Reserve Bank to ask banks to initiate insolvency proceedings to recover bad loans and promised more measures to resolve the NPA crisis.Apart from the financial performance review, the meeting will take stock of the status of stressed assets and various measures taken to clean up the balance sheets of banks so that they can start lending."Major issues on the agenda of the meeting, the first during this fiscal, include issues and solutions relating to Non Performing Assets (NPAs) of the Public Sector Banks (PSBs), status of MSE Credit, Stand-up India and Mudra Yojana among others," the finance ministry said in a statement.Other issues on agenda include discussion on financial inclusion and literacy, review of performance of Social Security Schemes including Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) etc, it said.The day-long meeting will also cover areas like cyber security, digitalisation of the banking transactions, rural development, agriculture credit and education loans. Role and preparedness of banks in the implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST) is also likely to be discussed in the one day Meeting of PSBs, it said. GST is going to be rolled-out from July 1.As for the recovery of bad loans, the RBI has also made substantial changes in the related norms and warned banks of monetary penalty for missing NPA resolution timelines. Jaitley had said the ordinance empowered the Reserve Bank to issue "directions to any banking company or banking companies to initiate insolvency resolution process in respect of a default under the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016".Toxic loans of PSBs rose by over Rs 1 lakh crore to Rs 6.06 lakh crore during April-December 2016-17. Gross NPAs of PSBs nearly doubled to Rs 5.02 lakh crore at the end of March 2016, from Rs 2.67 lakh crore at the end of March 2015.

People stand in a queue to purchase essential items during the nationwide lockdown in Shimla. (Express photo/Pradeep Kumar) People stand in a queue to purchase essential items during the nationwide lockdown in Shimla. (Express photo/Pradeep Kumar)No case of COVID-19 was reported from Himachal Pradesh for the seventh day in a row on Wednesday, health officials said. Samples of 389 people from across the state were tested for the novel coronavirus on Wednesday, out of which 227 tested negative while the results of the remaining 162 were awaited at the time of filing of this report.There are now 10 active cases in the state, including four in Una, two each in Chamba and Hamirpur and one each in Sirmaur and Kangra. There have been a total of 41 confirmed cases in the state so far since March 19, including two patients who passed away due to the disease.Meanwhile, residents of the state who were stranded outside continued to pour in. We have now started an app-based data entry system for all those coming through the inter-state borders in order to ensure a faster mechanism. All details will be saved at the backend for easy access, said Una SP Dr Karthikeyan G.Shanta expresses concernMeanwhile, veteran BJP leader Shanta Kumar expressed concern over violation of social distancing on Himachal Pradesh-Punjab border by those returning to their native places in the state. As many as 23,361 people have returned to their native places in Himachal Pradesh in their own vehicles from April 26 to 28 after getting e-passes from the respective district magistrates.The former CM stated that he was worried due to the crowd and carelessness. People in large numbers have started gathering on the state border for returning to HP, medical examination of so many people is not possible, he added.Urging Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to reconsider his decision of providing full relaxation to stranded HP residents to return, Kumar advised him to allow only a limited number of people daily to return. Kumar also advised the CM to lodge such HP residents in institutional quarantine instead of asking them to remain in home quarantine.He said, They have been asked to remain at home for 14 days. They have not come to remain in isolation. Following rules is not possible. Entry for those coming from outside should be only to the extent daily which may be examined and may be kept in quarantine as per rules.Hoteliers seek helpA Shimla hoteliers delegation has requested Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to direct Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) to pay salaries of hotels staff not only for the lockdown period but also for six months after the coronavirus lockdown.A three-member delegation of Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association (SHRA) led by its president Sanjay Sood met the CM at his official residence in Oakover.Sood later said they also requested CM to adjust for the next financial year the excise already paid by the hoteliers for the current financial year as there is no work due to the lockdown. They also requested to charge electricity, power and garbage bills against actual consumption or usage of service instead of commercial charges, which are around 10 times more than the actual consumption.The delegation requested the CM to direct ESIC to pay the salaries of the staff since the staff is technically on leave due this medical emergency and ESIC usually pays the salary of the staff members when they are on leave due to some medical condition. For the staff who are beyond the coverage limit of the ESIC, the establishments may be allowed to pay 25 per cent of the salary and balance may be paid by the government or government agency like Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), they added.Sood said the CM had already written to the centre for paying salaries of the hotel staff through ESIC. The Indian Express is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel (@indianexpress) and stay updated with the latest headlinesFor all the latest India News, download Indian Express App. The Indian Express (P) Ltd

A committee on social security, set up at the 44{+t}{+h}Indian Labour Conference (ILC) that concluded its session here on Wednesday, has suggested that maternity leave to women employees, now provided under the Maternity Benefit Act, be raised to 24 weeks from the present 12 weeks.This has come even as Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, while speaking at the conference on Tuesday, stressed the need to understand the constraints women staff faced in balancing their family and work responsibility, and take measures to increase the strength of women employees in the country.Exploitation at workplaceIronically, there was exploitation of women workforce in payment of wages in the quantum of payment when compared to men. A woman employee of a leading foreign bank in Chennai was recently asked to quit during her advanced stage of pregnancy and rejoin a few months after child birth just to avoid payment of maternity benefit and extension of leave to her.Briefing journalists on the deliberations of the ILC, Labour and Employment Minister Mallikarjun Kharge said a committee on minimum wages had suggested an increase of wage ceiling for the application of Employees Provident Fund Act from the present Rs. 6,500 a month to Rs. 10,000 or Rs. 15,000 a la getting medical benefits under the Employees State Insurance Corporation. Most of the committee members wanted the ceiling for (number of) workers covered under the EPF Act be reduced from 20 to 10.On pension being given by EPF, the committee suggested that the minimum payment be not less than Rs. 1000 a month as most of the State governments paid senior citizens pension in the range Rs. 400 to Rs. 1000 a month.Employment policyNeed to announce a national employment policy, take intensive measures for skill development among youths and increase employment generation were some of the other suggestions made at the conference.Wage ceiling of EPF Act applicants should be increasedRetired employees should not be paid less than Rs. 1000 per month

Union finance minister Arun Jaitley and Prime Minister Narendra Modi launch the scheme in New Delhi. File picture Guwahati, May 17: The Pradhan Matri Jan Dhan Yojana launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has received a huge response in Assam with 99.96 per cent of households opening bank accounts under the scheme. Government data shows that the scheme has covered 100 per cent households in all districts except Cachar (99.62 per cent), Jorhat (99.89 per cent), Morigaon (99.43) and Sivasagar (99.97). Modi announced the scheme, aimed at comprehensive financial inclusion, last year, hardly two weeks after he announced it in his first Independence Day speech as Prime Minister. After 1.5 crore bank accounts were opened on the day of the launch, the government claims to have opened 15 crore bank accounts till April this year. The number of bank accounts opened in rural Assam is thrice than that in urban areas. While the number of bank accounts opened in urban areas is 11,03,940, it is 30,65,740 in rural areas, with a total deposit of Rs 329 crore. RuPay debit cards have been issued against 38,18,139 accounts of the total 41,69,680 accounts opened so far. According to provisional data of the 2011 census, the total population in Assam was 3.12 crore, of which 85.90 per cent live in rural areas. The bigger chunk of the accounts has been opened in public sector banks. State Bank of India tops the list with 11.6 lakh accounts followed by United Bank of India (11.2 lakh) and Central Bank of India (1.56 lakh). The data reveals the number of zero balance accounts continued to be high across the country. According to the data, the percentage of zero balance accounts was 58 as on March 31 against 77 per cent by the end of September 2014. However, state-wise data is not available on this front. In Assam, Aadhaar cards have been linked to only 7 per cent bank accounts. This was, sources said, because of the fact that enrolment for Aadhaar cards has remained very low in Assam along with a few other northeastern states. Currently, enrolment is being carried out only in select areas of Sonitpur, Golaghat and Nagaon districts on a pilot basis. On the other hand, 91,439 bank accounts have been opened under the scheme in Arunachal Pradesh with a total deposit of Rs 20.35 crore. RuPay cards have been issued against 89.78 per cent of these accounts, most of which were opened in SBI. Modi recently launched three social security schemes - Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana - to bring more people under the banking sector.

Govt to start Suraksha Bandhan insurance driveNew Delhi, Aug 11, 2015, DHNS 23:33 ISTCashing in on the Raksha Bandhan festival, the government will kick off Suraksha Bandhan drive to provide insurance cover to all.Banks and insurance companies will reach out to eligible bank account holders who are yet to be enrolled under the two insurance schemes  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) for accident and disability cover and the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) for a term life cover.The special enrolment drive will begin on Raksha Bandhan day at the end of this month, the finance ministry said in a statement. This Suraksha Bandhan drive aims to take forward the governments objective of creating a universal social security system in the country, the statement said.The envisaged social security initiative also includes the Atal Pension Yojana (APY), launched along with the two insurance schemes on May 9 this year.APY addresses the issue of old age income security by facilitating regular contributions during the working life of the subscriber for a guaranteed pension at the age of 60.Public service organisations supported by peoples representatives, field functionaries of government departments, and banks along with insurance companies, among others, are expected to participate in the efforts through outreach drives and camps in large numbers.The last date for enrolling under the PMSBY and PMJJBY schemes has been extended till September 30, and persons enrolling within this period would not be required to submit a certificate of good health for PMJJBY.

SBI has made arrangements for implementation of three schemes  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana, and Atal Pension Yojana. They would come into force from June 1, 2015. Customers can make payments for the schemes through auto debit. The schemes are being launched as part of Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana on May 9.

May 09, 2015 00:00 ISTMay 09, 2015 00:00 ISTMay 09, 2015 00:00 ISTMay 09, 2015 00:00 ISTRELIGIONSelva Vinayagar Temple: Discourse on Thiruvarutpa by M. Vijayaraman, Railway Colony, 7.30 p.m.Ramakrishna Mutt: Daily aarathi, Reserve Line, New Natham Road, 6.30 p.m.Panniru Thirumurai Mandram: Thiruppugazh sindhanai vattam, N.C. Sundararaman speaks, Dhandayuthapaniswami Temple, Iravathanallur, 5 p.m.Thiruvalluvar Kazhagam: Discourse on Kandapuranam by A. Arumugam, North Adi Street, Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, 7 p.m.Thiruvalluvar Mandram: Discourse on Karaikal Ammaiyar by Raasa. Umarani, S.S. Colony, 5 p.m.CULTURESri Aurobindo Society: The yoga of Sri Aurobindos savitri reading, Chinna Chokkikulam, 4 p.m.Poompuhar: Expo on traditional arts, 12, West Veli Street, 10 a.m.Maharishi Ved Vigyan Bhavan: Transcendental meditation class by T.V. Rajendran, No.4 Mariamman Teppakulam West Street 11 a.m. and 5 p.m.International Sivananda Yoga Vedanta Centre: Yoga and meditation classes, 444 KK Nagar East Ninth Street, 6 a.m., 6.30 p.m., 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. (for women)Prajapita Brahma Kumaris Ishwariya Vishwa Vidyalaya: Free rajayoga meditation classes, 36 Meenakshi Nagar, P and T Nagar, 40 Sambandamoorthy Street, 47 B CMR Road and 357 Anna Nagar, 6.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m.Yoga Research Centre: Yoga training by S. Yoganand, Department of Philosophy, Madura College, 6.30 a.m.GENERALIndian Bank: Launch of Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bhima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pon. Radhakrishnan, Union Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways and Shipping, addresses, Lakshmi Sundaram Hall Tallakulam, 5.30 p.m.Vivekananda College: Culture camp for school students, Tiruvedakam, 10 a.m.Peoples Watch: Release of book on Fact-finding mission on woodcutters killed in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu Theological Seminary, Arasaradi, 3 p.m.Nadar Mahajana Sangam S. Vellaichamy Nadar College: 27th Graduation Day, Gangaram Dorairaj Auditorium, Nagamalai Pudukottai, 10 a.m.Justice Shivaraj Patil Foundation: Seven-day State-level residential summer camp for tribal children, Jim Jesudoss, Director of Sakthi Vidiyal, addresses, V.R. Krishna Iyer Community Hall, KK Nagar, 11 a.m.TVS Community College: Students technical expo, valedictory function, C. Kathiravan, Corporation Commissioner, addresses, 26/4, Iravadanallur Teppakulam, Ramnad Road, near police check-post, 4 p.m.Tamil Nadu Association of Arts and literature: Remembrance meeting for writer Jayakanthan, R. Nallakannu speaks, Gandhi Memorial Museum, 5 p.m.Magizhvor Mandram: Meeting, R. Chokkalingam speaks, Victoria Edward Hall, 6.30 p.m.Alcoholics Anonymous: Meeting, Quality Care Hospital, Ellis Nagar, 7 p.m.

Post-COVID-19, whenever that happens, one of the most enduring images of it would be that of the multitudes of migrant workers who became, all of a sudden, nowhere people, no ones people. For the policymakers, it would be a trigger to rework a strategy for them and to ensure a better legal framework which doesnt leave them high and dry yet again during tough situations.It is in this context that we need to revisit the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979. It was drawn up after repealing The Orissa Dadan Labour Act, 1975. Based on a very specific background, it couldnt perhaps see much beyond the then-existing migrant workmen system. The ISMW Act defines inter-State migrant workman as any person who is recruited by or through a contractor. This definition keeps away any migrant workman out of the ambit if he is not brought in through a licensed contractor.It is common knowledge that most of the migrant workmen are not routed through licensed contractors. This small catch, in the definition, has been sufficient to exclude bulk of the migrant workmen from getting any benefit out of the Act.Furthermore, the Act is only applicable to any establishment in which five or more inter-State migrant workmen are employed. In reality, only a miniscule proportion of migrant workmen are placed under such establishments these days. So, if the establishment doesnt come under the purview of the Act, its migrant employees, numbering less than five, cease to be migrants, legally, even though they may actually be one!Inadequacy of ActThe current crisis has comprehensively exposed the inadequacy of the ISMW Act. While it has become anachronistic, the need for legal safeguards and welfare measures for migrants has become even more pressing and urgent.The Unorganised Workers Social Security (UWSS) Act, 2008 was enacted to provide for social security and welfare of unorganised workers. The Act defines unorganised workers as home-based worker, self-employed worker or wage worker in the unorganised sector.The Government of India has, in the recent past, introduced a host of social security schemes. Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan Yojana is meant to ensure old age protection for unorganised workers. Atal Pension Yojana has been launched under the National Pension System. Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana is a life insurance scheme. Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana is an accident insurance scheme. Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana aims at providing health cover. The UWSS Act itself has two very vitally useful features, viz., (a) Registration of unorganised workers, and (b) Portable smart I-card with a Unique Workers Identification Number. The coverage of these useful provisions and schemes, however, is still sub-optimal.The entitlements and benefits for the migrant workers have an unquestionable economic, legal and moral basis. In the present context, the following suggestions may require urgent consideration:Repealing of the ISMW Act, 1979 forthwith and replacing it with a new Act, or alternatively, enlarging the scope of UWSS Act to include legal entitlements, to define the migrant workman as a subset, to provide for contingencies of livelihood loss and to make the Act legally enforceable.Universalisation of registration and issuance of Aadhaar-based UWIN (Unique Workers Identification No.) ought to be done. It will serve multiple objectives.Schemes like MNREGA, PDS and Ujjwala need to be made portable. Geofencing of different benefits can be done so that a migrant workman can choose location-wise benefits for himself and his family from a matrix available.A comprehensive database of the migrant workers source and destination, demography, employment patterns and skill sets would not only help in skill development and providing for social security benefits, but would also be useful in planning for mass transit of migrant labour, and preparing for any contingency plan in abnormal situations.Issues related to migrant workmen have complex Centre-State and inter-State dimensions. The Inter-State Council, set up under Article 263 of the Constitution, may be a more appropriate forum to effectively and comprehensively deal with larger issues related to migrant workmen.Its time to initiate a legal lattice that means business to the migrant workmen, and say goodbye to the antiquated law of 1979 that seems to have outlived its utility. It is better late than never.Vivek Kumar Singh is a civil servant who has earlier worked as Labour Commissioner, Bihar. Views are personal.

The government, which is looking to push the social security schemes under the Jan Suraksha umbrella, could bring in changes in these programmes to make them more saleable. The Prime Ministers Office along with the finance ministry is looking into the matter,a senior government official, who did not wish to be identified, told HT.Besides, it is also focussing on increasing financial literacy, especially among the unbanked population, through new programmes. Until now, over 6,58,000 individuals have participated in these financial literacy programmes held under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana and the Jan Suraksha plan.We have asked banks and insurance companies to undertake a massive drive to increase financial literacy among the unbanked population..until that is done, the social security programmes will not yield the kind of results they can, said the official quoted above.The government has also directed banks and insurance companies to speed up claim settlements for all insurance schemes linked to such plans.The government is monitoring the schemes and banks have been advised to fix settlements at the earliest with minimum documentation, an executive director with a public sector bank told HT.A few of these schemes have had some teething problems. The Atal Pension Yojana, for one, has not taken off the way it was anticipated. The scheme will be made available for a larger section of the society as the government is set to raise the upper age limit for people to 50 years from the current 40.Besides, sources also said that the maximum pension a subscriber is entitled to receive could also be increased from the current Rs 5,000.Social Security Schemes, including the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, besides APY, were launched by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May 2015.

Labour ministry offers ESI registration through E-biz portalNew Delhi, Dec 14, 2014, DHNS 1:32 ISTMinister of State for Labour Bandaru Dattatreya on Friday inaugurated the Web-service for registration of Employers under the ESI Act through e-Biz Portal, establish to make government services business friendly.The Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), an arm of the ministry, has become the first organisation to integrate its services and registration of employers through its website for creating ease of business and for reducing the cost of transaction.Employers will now be able to apply and manage registrations, licenses and clearances on this single portal, which has obviated the need for them to visit many offices and log on to several websites.Labour is one of the most critical factors of production. To ensure industrial peace and harmony, it is imperative that the issue of labour are well integrated into the overall growth and industrial development policy, Bandaru Dattatreya said during the inauguration.We are working very closely with Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP and its e-Biz platform so that the vision of the Prime Minister for Make in India is realized, he added.The e-Biz or Shram Suvidha Portal already deals with 16 Acts on a single portal across 4 organizations -Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), Office of the Chief Labour Commissioner(Central), Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) and DirectorateGeneral of Mines Safety (DGMS).

Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment Bandaru Dattatreya has said the government was looking into the demand for raising minimum wage in the unorganised sector to Rs 15,000 and a consensus was yet to be reached in the tripartite negotiations which are in progress.The workers demand is justified as the current wages are not enough to meet their daily expenses. They deserved to be given fair wages commensurate with the steep increase in cost of living, he observed.Speaking to media persons at the BJP State office here on Monday, Mr. Dattatreya said the government was also contemplating extending Employees Provident Fund (EPF) and Employees State Insurance (ESI) facilities to workers in unorganised sector and provide other social security benefits.UWIN (Unorganised Workers Identification Number) cards would be issued to the workers soon for providing the benefits.Labour Identification Numbers (LIN) given to employers helped Department of Labour and Employment in monitoring the implementation of laws governing the workers welfare.The Shram Suvidha portal of Ministry of Labour and Employment facilitated effective administration of the slew of laws.Mr. Dattatreya said there were about 43 crore workers in the unorganised sector and a majority of them were unskilled. For instance, only eight per cent of the 4.30 crore workers in construction industry possessed the requisite skills. Due emphasis has therefore been laid on skill development.For taking care of the health of workers in unorganised sector, super-specialty hospitals were being built in all the States under the aegis of Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) and the Ministry was prepared to sanction one for A.P provided the State government showed 100 acres for the project.The demand for raising minimum wage to Rs 15,000 a month in the urorganised sector is justified, he says

NEW DELHI: Is the formal sector of the Indian economy much larger than traditionally assumed? The Economic Survey argues that it is and depending on how we define what is formal, it could account for over half of all non-farm jobs.Combining data from the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), National Sample Survey Organisation (NSSO) and GST tax payers, the survey says that if registration under the GST is seen as an indicator of formality, 53 per cent of all non-farm jobs, or about 12.7 crore out of 24 crore, are in the formal sector, including about 1.5 crore government jobs. If only firms covered by EPFO or ESCI  and, of course, government jobs  are seen as part of the formal sector, the number shrinks to 7.5 crore or 31 per cent of the total.The data also provides an insight into the share of various kinds of formal or informal sector firms in turnover, GST collections and exports. Of the roughly 7.1 crore firms in the country, a mere 4 lakh are purely formal in the sense of being covered by EPFO or ESIC as well as by GST. Despite constituting a mere 0.6 per cent of the firms, they account for 38 per cent of total turnover, 87 per cent of exports, 63 per cent of GST liabilities and 18 per cent of non-farm jobs or about 4.5 crore jobs.The number of firms within the GST net, but outside the social security net of EPFO or ESIC is a little over 88 lakh or about 12 per cent of all firms. These firms account for 41 per cent of turnover, 13 per cent of exports and 37 per cent of the GST liabilities and employ 6.7 crore people, which is around 28 per cent of nonfarm jobs.Another 0.9 lakh firms, which are less than 0.1 per cent of the total, are under EPFO or ESIC coverage but not in the GST net. These are either in GST-exempt sectors like education, health and electricity or are within sectors covered by GST but not registered for it, whether due to being below the threshold or otherwise. Such firms account for about 14 per cent of the turnover and 1.5 crore jobs, a mere 0.6 per cent of nonfarm jobs.The largest chunk of firms is in what the Survey refers to as purely informal, being outside the GST net and not covered by EPFO or ESIC. They number about 6.2 crore or 87 per cent of all firms. However, they account for just 7 per cent of the total turnover and have no share in exports or GST liabilities, of course. At 9.2 crore, their share of non-farm jobs remains substantial at 38 per cent. But that also means that 62 per cent of all non-farm jobs are in firms that are in some sense formal or in government.

Representative imageBy: Tanmaya DasKOLKATA: A city-based academic institute has alleged misappropriation of funds to the tune of over Rs 1 crore by a senior member of its finance and accounts department. The complaint was registered with the Bhowanipore police.Police has initiated an investigation against the accused, Santanu Bag, under sections 408 (criminal breach of trust), 403 (dishonest misappropriation of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged documents as genuine) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property). Bag has been summoned for questioning.According to the FIR by Global Reach Education Foundation, Bag allegedly embezzled the money meant for the payment of employees state insurance and employees provident fund. The embezzlement was accounted for Rs1,02,39,305.Bag had some key responsibilities that included salary payments, regulatory government deposits, vendor payments against claims etc.The embezzlement was carried out from January 2018 till December, 2019. Bag had been receiving money since April 2016 for the payment of several expenses that he had misappropriated. Based on the revelations of an audit, Bag was asked to cooperate with the emergency internal compliance committee on February 10, 2020, for the inquiry. But his alleged lack of willingness to cooperate in the committee proceedings resulted in his suspension from the role.However, due to lack of response, the final showcause notice was issued on Feb 24, 2020, seeking a probe on the irregularities kept in bookkeeping and the personal bank account statements of Bag. According to the audit report, there has been some irregularity in the filing of GST returns as well. This has resulted in the additional burden of interest and penalty for the institute.According to the complaint filed by the managing director of the institute Ravi Lochan Singh, he was requested by Bag on December 27, 2019, to approve a hefty amount and transfer the fund online in order to pay for the various expenses of the institute. Singh, who lives outside India, trusted him and transferred the money. However, an investigation revealed a huge difference between the amount paid to Bag and the sum disbursed for ESI and EPF. This prompted the institute to conduct a deeper probe.

Govt modifies APY to attract more subscribersNew Delhi, Aug 21, 2015, DHNS: 21:45 ISTAfter Atal Pension Yojana (APY) evoked a little response from subscribers, the government on Thursday modified the scheme by removing the lock-in period from APY, and also the penalty on late payment of subscription.Launched on May 9, the APY has only 4.69 lakh subscribers till July-end, while two other insurance schemes  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), attracted 7.84 crore people and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), a life insurance product 2.70 crore subscribers.Certain suggestions have been received, including from the state governments, regarding providing certain relaxations for informal sector workers, having intermittent incomes, from the provision of mandatory monthly contributions under the scheme of APY, and also removing the penal provisions for non-contribution under APY to make the scheme more viable, the Finance Ministry said.Necessary revisions were made in APY to increase the acceptability of the scheme among informal sector workers, it said.The modified provisions carried out in the scheme are that individual subscribers shall have an option to make the contribution on a monthly, quarterly, half-yearly basis instead of on a monthly basis earlier; discontinuation of the payment of contribution provision has been substantially modified in favour of the subscriber. The account will not be deactivated and closed till the account balance with self-contributions becomes zero, due to deduction of account maintenance charges and fees.Also, the penalty on delayed payments has been simplified to Re 1 per month for contribution of Rs 100 or part thereof, for each delayed monthly payment. The scheme provides a minimum guaranteed pension of Rs 1,000-Rs 5,000 per month for people in the age group of 18-40 years.

KOLHAPUR: The Pradhan Mantri Atal Pension Scheme has received only 1,279 applications so far mainly because of the apathy of the implementing agencies and scheme's failure to convince the potential beneficiaries. Though the installment is very low, very few people have participated in it.As per the figures shared by the district lead bank, Bank of India, 608 applications from rural areas have received for the scheme while 671 from urban areas. Out of 1,279 as many as 1,261 bank accounts attached for the scheme are from public sector banks.Compared to the pension scheme, there are more applicants for Prime Minister Suraksha Bima Yojana and Prime Minister Jivan Jyoti Bima Yojana in the district. Both the schemes have received 1,45,474 and 1,48,063 applications so far.M G Kulkarni, general manager of lead district bank, Bank of India said, "It is challenge for us to convince the people about importance of the pension scheme. People are aware of the pension schemes up to some extent but still there is little response from the people for it. We are working out some plans to increase its reach-out."Sources close to the development said that the planning of the scheme has some problems. The maximum pension offered in the scheme is Rs 5,000 per month. Even if someone is in his or her 30s and pay higher amount as installment to get Rs 5,000 per month pension; nobody is sure that after 20 years what value Rs 5,000 will have in the market. Unfortunately, no senior government official comes out and addresses this basic and pin-pointed question about the pension scheme, said the official on the condition of anonymity.Sujit Minchekar, Shiv Sena MLA from Kolhapur district said that the government officials need to take extra efforts so that some people can participate in the scheme. Getting some pension after turning 60 is necessary and some people will benefit for sure. But there has to be more efforts than regular ways of issuing media releases and distributing leaflets. The real beneficiaries of the scheme are people from unorganized sectors working in urban areas as well as some small scale industries, he said.

Aim is to ensure a minimum of 100 households are covered under postal productsThe Department of Posts has launched a campaign to promote all postal products and services available at village-level under Five Star Village scheme.The campaign is aimed at ensuring a minimum of 100 households covered under Savings/ Recurring Account/Time Deposit/Monthly Income Scheme/ Senior Citizen Saving Scheme/ National Savings Certificate/ Kisan Vikas Patra/ , Sukanya Samridhi Account/ Public Provident Fund/ (Post Office Savings Account linked IPPB , Postal Life Insurance/ /Rural Postal Life Insurance Policy and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana/ Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana.To monitor the progress of the scheme, K.Sandhya Rani, IPoS Member (Banking & DBT) Postal Service Board, Department of Posts, visited the Perali branch post office under Tenali division on Thursday and declared the village as a Five Star village.She interacted with villagers and said that as per the mandate given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Department of Posts was providing various digital services such as AEPS (Aadhar Enabled Payment System) through IPPB/mobile banking/Internet banking/ATM card service and insurance service through the Prime Minister Jan Suraksha Schemes (PMJJBY/PMSBY) with low premium.Passbooks distributedMs. Sandhya distributed passbooks to customers and requested them to utilise the services. Postmaster General,Vijayawada Region, T.M Sreelatha, Director Postal Services Headquarters K. Chandra Sekhar, APMG, APCO K. Sudheer Babu and others were present.

The prime minister Narendra Modi has also announced the Jeevan Jyoti insurance scheme, which will provide a one-year insurance cover for death, renewable annually.The prime minister launched three welfare-enhancing pension and insurance schemes on May 9. In a country where less than 10 per cent of the population has insurance cover and almost nobody in the unorganised sector has a pension plan, these three schemes are expected to play a significant role in providing social security for the poor.Having successfully ensured, through the Jan Dhan Yojana, that more than 95 per cent of Indian households have bank accounts, the Central government has taken the next logical step by extending social security to the masses. This move comes close on the heels of the launch of Mudra Bank, mandated to ensure that adequate credit flows to micro units. The extension of these products will ensure business volumes for the banking industry, which will carry new instruments to the masses, and help in making financial inclusion commercially viable. The structure of the schemes entails contribution, though nominal, by individual subscribers.Share This Article Related Article Govt set to unveil farm, health insurance for masses300 claims for PMs insurance plans till nowThe state of welfareThe state of welfare Modi in Kolkata: Will launch schemes and meet ailing Maharaj, CMModi in Kolkata: Will launch schemes and meet ailing Maharaj, CM Centre goes on overdrive to sell insurance coverCentre goes on overdrive to sell insurance cover Personal Finance: Social security boost: Range of new pension, insurance schemes on anvilThe flagship Atal Pension Yojana (APY) will provide old-age income security for the working poor in the unorganised sector, while addressing longevity risks among the workers, who constitute nearly 88 per cent of the total labour force of 47 crore. Most of these workers do not have formal pension plans, despite the fact that the Swavalamban Scheme had been operational for half a decade. Depending on the contribution, the APY would provide a fixed monthly pension of Rs 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 4,000 or 5,000 from the age of 60. The minimum age to join the APY is 18 years, the maximum, 40. The monthly contribution, to be paid through a bank account, will range from Rs 42 to Rs 1,454, depending on the age of the applicant and the pension amount opted for. In the initial five years, the government will co-contribute 50 per cent of the amount put in by the subscriber or Rs 1,000 per annum, whichever is less.The prime minister has also announced the Jeevan Jyoti insurance scheme, which will provide a one-year insurance cover for death, renewable annually. Again, the scheme envisages that the subscriber will have a savings bank account. The eligibility age is 18 to 50 years. The premium is Rs 330 per member and the cover is Rs 2 lakh, payable on death. The scheme will be administered through life insurance companies in arrangement with banks. The third scheme is the Suraksha Bima Yojana, renewable annually, which will insure individuals against death or disability because of an accident. All savings account holders between the ages of 18 and 70 are eligible to join. The premium will be Rs 12 per annum, which will be shared between insurance company, agent and bank.These three schemes will ensure financial inclusion, enhanced business opportunities for banks and higher insurance penetration, providing economic security to people in the unorganised sector. Economic security will also ensure stability in consumption patterns and the ability to weather income shocks, which will ensure a steadier path of growth for the economy.The government may like to index the monthly pension amount in the APY to inflation, as Rs 5,000 per month 42 years later may be too insignificant an incentive to join. Some upward adjustments in the premium and pension could be needed soon. There would also be a need to ensure that commercial banks, especially in the public sector, already burdened by the Jan Dhan Yojana, are adequately equipped to deliver these additional services.While these commendable measures will certainly enhance welfare, an important yet overlooked issue is the plight of the nearly eight crore Indians, mainly women, above 60 years of age, who are not subscribers or beneficiaries of any pension scheme. The government should consider a system of universal pensions till 2035, when the first monthly pension would be paid under APY, for those elderly persons who devoted a lifetime of hard work to the country but did not have the option to subscribe to a contributory pension system. This would make India a genuine welfare state.The writer is RBI chair professor of economics at IIM Bangalore. Views are personalFor all the latest Opinion News, download Indian Express App

CHENNAI: Industry behemoths like Wipro, Saint-Gobain India, Bharti Airtel, Alstom, Biocon, Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) and Future Retail are some of the companies who have signed a petition along with recruitment consultant TeamLease Services, urging the government to tweak its 'salary confiscation' regime and allow employees to choose how their salary is paid and contributions invested.Almost 500 employers have signed the petition which calls for a choice in deciding whether to make their 12% contribution to Provident Fund (PF) or opt out of it; whether the 12% employer contribution should go to Employee Pension Scheme (EPS) or to an individual account with the National Pension Scheme (NPS) (which can invest funds to yield more returns); and whether their Employees State Insurance (ESI) contribution should go to ESI Corporation or can be used in any IRDA regulated insurance product."The government is requested to move away from the current benefits 'confiscation regime' because it harms the people it is trying to protect. Recognizing the cost-to-company model and revamping these labour laws would greatly benefit youth, increase formal employment and accelerate voluntary migration," Rituparna Chakraborty, convenor of the petition & co-founder of TeamLease said.India's labour laws mandate the highest salary deductions for low wage employees in the world which is almost 44.31% and ironically, this is only 5.32% for high wage employees since statutory obligations are either not applicable or there are provisions of exemption at higher salary levels. TeamLease said.Sunil Goel, director at GlobalHunt, an executive search firm, felt that with the ongoing talent war across industries, companies are increasingly taking steps to retain quality talent and the decision to appeal to the government is a step in this direction. He added that with increasing engagement between government and India Inc, it makes it easier to raise such requests.A statement by TeamLease also stated that low-wage employees do not have high savings rate and mandating savings higher than real saving may lead to high attrition and migration to informal employment.Currently, while employees in informal sector take home their entire salary, employees in the organized sector lose nearly 50% of their earnings to schemes like PF, ESI, Professional Tax, Employee Pension Scheme (EPS), statutory bonus and gratuity."The 'salary in hand' is the clinching factor for any entry-level migratory worker and with almost one-third of the work force falling under this category, rationalizing statutory deductions becomes crucial for corporates to keep their expansion plans going," said Aditya Narayan Mishra, president of staffing at Randstad India.

Govt mulling universal social security cover for workers: PMNew Delhi, May 17, 2013, (PTI) : 15:33 ISTPrime Minister Manmohan Singh today said the government was at an advance stage of considering a universal social security cover for workers while acknowledging that there could be "no disagreement" on issues raised by trade unions during the February general strike.Noting that the coverage would extend to workers in both the organised and unorganised sectors, he said the government was also considering creation of a national social security fund, fixing a national floor-level minimum wage and a minimum pension of Rs 1000 per month under Employees Pension Scheme."The recent two-day strike by trade unions focused on a number of issues relating to the welfare not only of the working classes but also the people at large. These include demands on which there can be no disagreement," he said inaugurating the 45th Indian Labour Conference here.The government, he said, supported demands which include concrete measures for containing inflation and employment generation opportunities as they are "unexceptionable". They also include strict implementation of labour laws."There can however be differences on the best ways of fulfilling these demands and we are willing to engage constructively with the trade unions in this regard," he said.The trade unions had gone on a two-day general strike in February this year pressing for implementation of their 10-point charter of demands.A Group of Ministers was set up thereafter under the Finance Minister to look into them and resolve issues which require further dialogue. While the GoM meets on May 22, the Prime Minister expressed confidence that "soon we will see some forward movement" out of the deliberations.He said the Cabinet has already approved amendments to the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 to provide for a statutory National Floor-Level Minimum Wage.His support for some of the issues of the workers' bodies came as he conceded that many of the demands reflect the concern that growth and progress should be inclusive and should particularly benefit the under-privileged sections of the society."This is a concern that has been very dear to our government. We believe that providing our people with productive employment opportunities is the best way of achieving this objective," he said.The Prime Minister said the government has made serious efforts in implementing various employment generation programmes such as MNREGA and National Rural Livelihood Mission by providing employment opportunities to a large number of people included those coming from the backward classes."MNREGA has been particularly helpful in reducing inter- state migration of labour, elimination of bonded labour and raising the purchasing power of the rural households," he said.Women participation under this scheme has also been more than 48 per cent.Underlining that rural women were increasingly going for self-employmentopportunities in ever-increasing numbers, he said out of 44.32 lakh self-help groups in the country, 30.21 lakh are exclusively for women.The Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY) programme lauched in 2008 has seen 3.41 crore smart cards issued to the beneficiaries so far.The modernisation initiatives in the Employees Provident Fund Organisation have resulted in 25 per cent increase in the settlement of claims as compared to the previous year, he said.On the occasion, the Prime Minister said a number of amendments in labour laws were at various stages of consideration.Observing that certain vulnerable groups of workers like migrant workers need "special attention", he asked the conference to focus particularly on their well-being along with those of domestic workers and those working in unsafe conditions."These groups not only need special legislative support but also a more effective implementation of the existing laws that have been made for their protection and well-being. We need to bring in the best international practices for bringing about improvements in their working conditions," he said.

KOLKATA: During his one-day trip to Kolkata on May 9, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will announce three flagship social security schemes. The two insurance schemes  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY)  and one pension scheme  Atal Pension Yojana  that finance minster Arun Jailtey already announced in budget speech, will be formally launched by the Prime Minister from Kolkata.Modi is likely to announce the schemes after his meeting with top officials of various insurance companies in the city on May 9 evening. Soon after touching down Kolkata in the morning, Modi will go to the Ramakrishna Mission headquarters at Belur Math.Senior state government officials said that no meeting had so far been scheduled between Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee during his brief visit to Kolkata.The PMSBY will be a one-year accident insurance cover for Rs 2 lakh, which could be renewed annually. As part of the scheme, an accidental death and disability cover of Rs 2 lakh will be offered to all savings bank account holders in the age group of 18 to 70 years for a premium of Rs 12 per annum. The scheme will be offered through public-sector general insurance companies. Other general insurance companies can also offer the scheme on similar terms with necessary approvals and tie-ups with banks.The PMJJBY will be a one-year life cover, which could also be renewed annually. As part of this scheme, life insurance cover of Rs 2 lakhs for death due to any reason will be offered to all saving bank account holders in the age group of 18 to 50 years for a premium of Rs 330 per annum. This scheme will also be offered through LIC and other insurance companies.The Atal Pension Yojana will focus on employees of unorganized sector and provide subscribers a fixed minimum pension of Rs 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000 or Rs 5000 per month starting at the age of 60 years, depending on the contribution option exercised on entering at an age between 18 and 40 years.The Prime Minister's Kolkata visit comes amid indications that Mamata is willing to co-operate with the central government in New Delhi. Mamata has already decided to throw a lifeline to the Modi government on passing the Goods and Services Tax (GST) bill in Parliament.

Our heads hang in shame over crime against women: ModiNew Delhi, March 8, 2015, (IANS): 15:36 ISTPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said "our heads hang in shame when we hear of instances of crime against women" and that his government has initiated several steps to help women who face violence and abuse.In a statement on the International Women's Day, the prime minister said he "salutes the indomitable courage and stellar achievements of women".However, he added: "Our heads hang in shame when we hear of instances of crime against women."Modi said: "We must walk shoulder-to-shoulder to end all forms of discrimination or injustice against women."He said his government is setting up One-Stop Centres that will provide assistance, legal advice and psychological counselling to women who face violence or abuse.A mobile helpline will be started where women can dial 181 and seek counselling and referral services, Modi said.He pointed out that the government has started several measures to bring "a positive change in the lives of women".Modi said the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao Yojana seeks to usher in a paradigm shift in attitudes towards the girl child and places emphasis on educating the girl child.He said the Sukanya Samruddhi Yojana will provide support for marriage and education of young women.He hoped that MUDRA Bank will help thousands of women achieve financial independence.Referring to the broadbased social security schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana prsenented in union budget, he hoped that such schemes will benefit women in a big way.

Hundreds of women, who are members of various self-help groups, vendors and hawkers, thronged the Collectorate and the office of Magalir Thittam here on Wednesday to present applications for Mudra loans, the micro funding offered for self-employment without collateral security.A week after Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman faulted the nationalised banks for being inactive in disbursing Mudra loans to the poor and needy and directed the authorities to conduct a special loan mela by the end of March, the district administration has geared up and organised a special camp to receive applications.Collector S. Natarajan, who received the applications, said that a target had been fixed to provide loans to 14,000 beneficiaries by the end of this month. Credit facilities would be provided by the banks under the schemes of Shishu, Kishor and Tarun and those in the age group of 18 to 55 years were eligible to avail the loans.Most of the 1,500 applicants who attended the special camp were members of women self help groups who wanted loans either to expand their existing businesses or start new ventures, he said.The 14,000 target would be covered within this month and another Mudra loan mela would be conducted before March-end, Mr Natarajan said.Officials from 13 banks, including leading nationalised banks, HDFC, ICICI and Pandyan Grama Bank, Magalir Thittam Project Director G Gurunathan and District Industrial Centre (DIC) General Manager P Mariammal were among others attended the special camp.The applications would be sent to the bank branches in the respective regions and perused for providing loans to the eligible candidates, the Collector said.Ms. Sitharaman, who was here last week to review the implementation of New India Vision 2022, had expressed dissatisfaction that the district lagged behind in disbursing Mudra loans under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Loan Yojana.She had also wanted the district administration and banks to focus on Pradan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana and ensure that the benefits reached the poor and needy.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi considers himself an outsider to Delhi, specifically the Lutyens Bungalow Zone, the enclave that houses the movers and shakers of the national capital.His three years at the helm have only borne this point out, with a number of big-ticket events, earlier held in Delhi, now being shifted out of the city.In the past three years, Mr. Modi held the all-India conference of top police officials in Guwahati (2014), Kutch (2015) and Hyderabad (2016) as a matter of principle.The Combined Commanders Conference, an annual event of the three armed services, has also been moved out of Delhi since 2015. That year, it was held on board the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya off the coast of Kochi and this year, in Dehradun.Diplomatic meetingsDiplomatic meets too have been moved out of Delhi.S.M. Krishna, during his tenure as External Affairs Minister in the Manmohan Singh government, held a trilateral meeting of Foreign Ministers of India, China and Russia in Bengaluru in 2009. Prime Minister Modi held the second meeting with leaders of 14 Pacific islands in Jaipur and the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) summit in Goa in 2016.Following the BRICS meeting, he also held the annual bilateral summit between India and Russia, hosting President Vladimir Putin in Goa later that year.To mark the first anniversary of his government, Prime Minister Modi had launched three big-ticket social sector schemes  the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, the Jeevan Jyoti Yojana and the Atal Pension Yojana from Kolkata, with Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in tow.States take centre stageThe Ministers have also been asked to hold important meetings outside Delhi, the latest being the meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council in Srinagar last month, presided over by Finance Minister Arun Jaitley. According to Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, Rajyavardhan Rathore, It is a way of claiming the entire country. The far-flung areas, which in the past would hardly see much of Delhis officialdom, have to now spruce themselves up to receive the Prime Minister himself. It not only generates belongingness amongst the residents but also brings with it direct and indirect benefits like speedy execution of pending development work or resolution of local issues.

he Union Budget 2016-17 is likely to announce measures to put more money into the hands of employees with a monthly income up to a certain threshold, like Rs.10,000, for instance, by doing away with their mandatory 12 per cent contribution for Provident Fund (PF) savings, a government official said on condition of anonymity.We are in favour of waiving the employees contribution altogether up to a certain level of income. This will boost the take-home salary of such employees rather than force them to park so much of their monthly income into their EPF account for retirement, said the official, who had participated in the deliberations of a Committee of Secretaries, set up by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, that has endorsed the idea.Presently, 24 per cent of salaries of all employees in the formal sector earning up to Rs.15,000 a month, are deducted towards the employees PF account  with 12 per cent counted as employers share and 12 per cent as employees contribution.Employers would continue to pay their 12 per cent share towards employees retirement savings account and other administrative charges, including those related to the employees deposit-linked insurance scheme that EPF account holders are automatically enrolled into. EPF contributions are mandatory for all firms employing twenty persons or more.If the employees contribution is waived for those earning up to Rs.15,000 a month or Rs.1.8 lakh a year, the current ceiling for statutory EPF contributions, it would increase take home salaries for such employees by Rs.1,800 a month or Rs.21,600 a year. Officials said this would be the equivalent of a tax break to such beneficiaries as they are anyway not liable to pay any income tax. Personal income upto Rs.2.5 lakh a year is exempt from income tax.While the government hopes this could spur domestic consumption and demand and play a part in reviving the investment cycle, it is also keen on doing away with the system of imposing high forced savings on low income workers through the statutory EPF contributions. The labour ministry as well as the Employees Provident Fund Organisation that administers the scheme have been consulted over the proposal and have concurred with it.An analyst said this could also help arrest the trend of higher job creation in the informal sector and jobs of informal nature in the formal sector.In a formal sector job, if you earn Rs.15,000 a month, 44.3 per cent of your salary is deducted towards statutory benefits like EPF and employees State insurance. For someone earning Rs.55,000 a month, the same number is just 8 per cent, said Rituparna Chakraborty, Senior Vice-President at Teamlease.A lot of young entrants into the workforce prefer to opt for informal work contracts with no benefits in order to ensure that their take-home salaries remain high.Employers cant raise their cost to company for employees, while the young workers starting their careers want more money in hand to take care of rent, commuting costs and daily meals. And once they start their career informally, it is difficult to change track, said Ms. Chakraborty, adding that the reduction in statutory contributions for EPF would incentivise the creation of more formal jobs.Govt. hopes this will spur domestic consumption and demand and revive the investment cycle

New Delhi, May 10, 2015, dhns: 0:38 ISTIn an effort to quell the Centre's anti-poor image, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Cabinet colleagues on Saturday fanned out across the country to simultaneously launch pro-poor social welfare programmes.While Modi was in Kolkata, Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh was in Lucknow, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley was in Mumbai and Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu was in Varanasi. The BJP, too, will reach out to the masses for a week from May 26 to mark the Modi governments first anniversary.To this end, the BJPs parliamentary party office has come out with the booklet Let The Facts Speak to expose the double-speak of the Congress and its friends.Earlier, a meeting of the Union Cabinet on Wednesday evening, chaired by the prime minister had approved the operationalisation of the Atal Pension Yojana (APY), the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY).The government had shared details of these social welfare schemes with its MPs at the BJP parliamentary party meeting held Wednesday morning.Cabinet approval was given to extend funding support for implementing the APY and apprise the Cabinet on the operationalisation of the PMJJBY and the PMSBY, the government had said in an official statement.Approval was also given to provide Rs 50 crore per annum for the next five years as government contribution for publicity and awareness-creation-related expenditure for the PMJJBY and the PMSBY.Under the pension scheme, subscribers would receive a fixed minimum pension ranging from Rs 1,000 per month to Rs 5,000 per month at the age of 60, depending on their contributions.

State governments can opt to bear on behalf of small and marginal farmers their share of monthly premium under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Maandhan Yojana (PMKMY).As per the scheme, while the Central government will meet 50% of the monthly premium, each farmer, on joining the scheme, is required to pay the balance. According to a recent circular issued by the Secretary in the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Sanjay Agarwal, to the Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories, States would have the option of bearing the burden of an individual farmers contribution.The scheme aims to provide insurance cover to farmers in the age group of 18-40 and envisages the payment of a monthly pension of 3,000 to the beneficiary-farmers on their attaining 60. In terms of eligibility, the maximum size of a farmers landholding should be 2 hectares. It is estimated that 5 crore such farmers will benefit in the first three years of the scheme, which will be administered by the Union Ministry together with the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC). As per budget estimates, 900 crore has been set apart by the Centre towards its share of premium for the current year.The amount of premium will vary, depending upon the farmers age. In respect of an 18-year-old farmer, his or her contribution will be 55. At age 29, the premium will be 100 and for a 40-year-old farmer, 200.Apart from the conditions of exclusion being adopted in the case of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN), those covered under social security schemes such as National Pension Scheme and the Employees State Insurance Corporation as well as the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maandhan (PM-SYM), will not be able to join the latest pension scheme.The farmers pension scheme is another important flagship programme of the Centre, requiring constant monitoring to ensure maximum enrolment, Mr. Agarwal noted in the circular.

M. Kanagavalli, CEO of the zilla panchayat, said on Saturday that the more people in the district should be included under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and the Atal Pension Yojana.She was speaking after inaugurating the district-level awareness and enrolment programme on these three schemes here.Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana is an accidental death insurance scheme available to people in the age-group of 18 to 70 years with bank accounts.Ms. Kanagavalli said that the officers or those involved in creating awareness should give clear information that a copy of First Information Report and post-mortem report especially with regard to the Prime Ministers Suraksha Bima Yojana.Already 45,570 applications had already been distributed under these schemes.The district had a population of 11.5 lakh. There were 2.53 lakh households. Udupi district was 100 per cent financially included under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana in December 2014. There were 21 lakh savings bank accounts in the district.Hence, there should be more response to these three schemes. The Zilla Panchayat had already taken steps to inform about these three schemes in the villages through the Panchayat Development Officers, Ms. Kanagavalli said.K. Subba Rao, District Lead Chief Manager, welcomed the gathering. H.V. Bharam Gowdar, Deputy General Manager of Syndicate Bank, T.V. Bhat, Managing Trustee of Jnan Jyoti Financial Literacy and Credit Counselling Centre, were present.District-level awareness and enrolment programme inaugurated

start:Union Minister for Labour and Employment M. Mallikarjun Kharge at a function to inaugurate the new Sub-regional Office of EPFO at Navanagar in Hubli on Sunday. Photo: Kiran BakaleUnion Minister for Labour and Employment M. Mallikarjun Kharge has said that for the first time, the Union Government had entered into an agreement with other countries to impart training to Indian youth in various skills.He was addressing a gathering after inaugurating the Sub-regional Office of the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) Organisation at Navanagar here on Sunday.Mr. Kharge said that India had entered into an agreement with the U.S. and Germany for facilitating skill development among Indian youth.Our agreement with the U.S. will help us in the field of vocational training, skill development, occupational safety and health and mining safety. The agreement with Germany will help us especially in the area of skill development. We don't have anything to learn from Afghanistan, but through the agreement we will train unskilled youth of that country, he said.50 crore youthMr. Kharge said that the Union Government had embarked on an ambitious project of enabling 50 crore youth to enhance their skills through skill development programmes in 11 years. The Government has fixed the target for 10 to 15 departments especially with regard to providing skill development training. The training will help the youth to become more employable, and the manufacturing industry will also gain significance, he said.Mr. Kharge said that Labour Ministers of 15 countries and Labour Secretaries of another 15 countries would be participating in a conclave organised by the Ministry in New Delhi on March 1 and 2. In all, representatives of 32 countries will be participating in the conclave which will facilitate exchange of ideas and also cooperation in providing training to improve the employability of unskilled labour in the country.Referring to the list of demands submitted by the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister Jagadish Shettar and Pralhad Joshi, MP, the Union Minister said that he would make all efforts to get the rightful demands of the State fulfilled.Politics should not come in the way of development, Mr. Kharge said, and appealed to the State Ministers to allocate funds for development projects equally of each district.AppealReferring to the nationwide strike called by the joint forum of trade unions on Tuesday, Mr. Kharge said the demands of trade unions were being met one by one. Appealing them not to go ahead with the strike, he said it would only result in huge economical loss for the country.FundsEarlier, Mr. Shettar requested Mr. Kharge to take up the issue of non-release of funds to Karnataka under the Prime Minister's Gram Sadak Yojna since the last two years and to press for inclusion of Hubli-Dharwad under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission with the Ministry concerned.Expressing happiness over the inauguration of new office building of the EPFO, Mr. Shettar called upon the officials to respond immediately to the problems of the working class. Mr. Joshi requested Mr. Kharge to prevail upon the Union Government to release funds for the construction of the new railway station at Hubli.Central Provident Fund Commissioner R.C. Mishra welcomed the gathering. A host of elected representatives, including the former Chairman of the Legislative Council Viranna Mattikatti, the former minister A.M. Hindasageri, MLAs Chandrakanth Bellad, Seema Masuti and Shankar Patil Munenakoppa, and MLCs Srinivas Mane and Mohan Limbikai were present.Bhoomi puja'Earlier, Mr. Kharge performed bhoomi puja' for the construction of sub-regional office of the Employees State Insurance Corporation, at a cost of Rs. 20 crore, at Navanagar.

The Union Ministry of Labour has directed the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) to exempt start-ups from inspection and filing returns for three years.In line with Prime Minister Narendra Modis vision to nurture start-ups, the Ministry said in a set of directions last week that the new age ventures should be allowed to self-certify their compliance with nine labour laws. According to the Start Up India  Stand Up India (Administrator) of Local Circles, the Labour Secretary, Shankar Aggarwal, in a letter had said start-ups should not be inspected or asked to file returns for three years under nine laws including the Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act and the Employees State Insurance Act. Promoting start-ups would need special hand-holding and nurturing. Thus, such ventures may be allowed to self-certify compliance with the labour laws, he added.They will be exempted from inspection under the Building and other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, Payment of Gratuity Act and Contract Labour Act.Start-ups will also be exempted from filing returns under the Industrial Disputes Act, Building and other Construction Workers Act, Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, Contract Labour Act, EPF Act and ESI Act.

Kolkata: "Small is beautiful" - the oft-quoted, signature adage bymay not be the reality any more. Even as the chief minister swears on thesector (as she did in the Bengal Leads), the government is defaulting on paying incentives to industries like never before. Most of those affected are in the small and medium bracket.MamataBanerjeeSMEThe Mamata Banerjee government has defaulted on payments to the tune of Rs 500 crore as incentives due to industries. In 2012-13, the total dues stood at Rs 700 crore. Around Rs 150 crore of it is payable to small and medium units (those with less than Rs 50 crore capital investment). The finance department only managed to release around Rs 180 crore. The huge outstanding figure only proves that the cash-strapped Bengal government, which has largely failed to woo new investments, has not been able to hand out the fiscal freebies it had promised its existing industries. A good many of these are in the "small and beautiful" category that Mamata is desperately clinging to, for want of big, manufacturing units.With the dues soaring every month, chambers of commerce have pressed the panic button. Some industries have even threatened to move to states "with more regularized fiscal support system". They voiced their stance at a meeting of the industrial core committee last Friday.The fear of losing industries to other states is real, said Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industries (Bpresident Kallol Dutta. "The government should start paying up to retain its industries. It's not as if money is not being spent. Instead of doling out cash to clubs (he was referring to Mamata distributing Rs 40.09 crore to 2,395 clubs last month with promises to keep the funds flowing for five years), the government should pay what is due to the industry," he said, adding that lack of promotion is hitting production. "If the government fails to prioritize its spending, the existing industries will move to greener pastures. It's not too difficult for small and medium industries to shift its base."The situation has turned messier with the Trinamool government trying to give added thrust to incentives while framing its industrial policy. The finance department is opposed to a higher rate of incentive because of the huge backlog. The West Bengal State Support for Industries Scheme 2008, which came into effect from April 1, 2008, is only valid till March 31, 2013. According to it, those with fixed capital investment (from Rs 5 crore to Rs 5,000 crore) are entitled to various subsidies, including 25% on term loans, waiver of electricity duty, and reimbursement of 50 to 60% of the expenditure incurred for their contribution towards employees state insurance and employees provident fund.There is also industrial promotional assistance which offers VAT exemption of 70 to 80%. The incentives are offered for five or seven years depending on the category of the industry. The money is paid annually.Ever since former finance minister Asim Dasgupta's embargo, West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation (WBIDC) has not been able to pay up incentive dues. The premier industrial promotional agency seems to be all the more handicapped these days because it can only spend Rs 20 crore a month towards incentives."Even if the government increased its budgetary allocation from Rs 500 crore to Rs 540 crore this fiscal, no more than Rs 240 crore can be paid annually to industries," said WBIDC sources. Ironically, of the Rs 540 crore budgetary allocation for 2013-14, Rs 375 crore has been earmarked for incentives.D P Nag, secretary of Bengal National Chamber of Commerce, said, "That's nothing new. The budgetary allocation says one story and the disbursement something alse."Rajiv Singh, director general, Indian Chamber of Commerce, said, "Non-payment of incentives would certainly discourage new investment in the state. With the increase in state's revenue earnings, we hope things will look up." Till then, he has a solution: "The government can offload some of the outstanding incentive amount by adjusting it with the tax paid by the industrial units."

Reaching out:Sanwar Lal Jat, MoS, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation; Chief Minister N. Rangasamy; MPR. Radhakrishnan; and other secretaries at the launch of the Centre's social security schemes in Puducherry on Saturday. Photo: T. SingaravelouChief Minister N. Rangasamy on Saturday announced that the government would take up the payment of the annual premium for all people in the Union Territory who enrol for the Central governments accident insurance scheme, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana.The Yojana was among the three social security schemes of the Centre launched in the UT by Sanwar Lal Jat, Union Minister of State, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation. Following the financial inclusion scheme Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) which was launched in August 2014, the Centre had rolled out three social security schemes: the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, the Atal Pension Yojana and the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (life insurance scheme) on Saturday.The Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana has an annual premium of Rs. 12, and a cover of Rs. 2 lakh (one year cover which is renewable from year to year) for accidental death and full disability, and a cover of Rs. 1 lakh for partial disability. All savings bank account holders in the age group of 18 to 70 years in participating banks are entitled to join.An official said that the Puducherry governments decision to pay the premium of the accidental insurance scheme would cover an estimated 10 lakh people in the Union Territory.Addressing the audience at the launch function at Jipmer auditorium, Mr. Jat said, The Prime Minister has shown keen interest in improving the lives of the poor. He added, I hope the message about these schemes reaches all people and that they are popularised.Similar to his message on the need to improve banking service at the launch of PMJDY, Mr. Rangasamy said government schemes can be successful only if they reach the intended beneficiaries on time. He said that services in financial institutions at present levels were unsatisfactory, and must be monitored and improved.The live telecast of the schemes launch programme by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kolkata was screened at the programme. The launch was attended by Member of Parliament R. Radhakrishnan, Development Commissioner Chandraker Bharti, District Collector S. Sundaravadivelu, Executive Director of Indian Bank B. Rajkumar, banking and insurance officials and representatives from Nabard.

In line with his governments aim of simplifying labour laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday unveil a number of schemes to reduce hassles for employees and employers and create a conducive environment for business.According to labour ministry officials some of the schemes that will be launched at the event titled Deen Dayal Upadhyay Shrameva Jayate include Universal Account Number (UAN) facility for Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) subscribers, a new labour inspection scheme and a unified web portal to check labour law- compliances.The unified web portal aims at making compliance process easier for industry and will see a common window for compliances of 16 central labour laws. The portal will also enhance transparency in labour inspections based on key performance indices and provide an effective grievance redressal system.The new inspections scheme envisages doing away with the discretionary power of inspectors and any decision on inspections will be taken only after the proposed central analysis and intelligence unit analyses the compliance reports by the employers. Also each inspector will have to submit his report online within three days, making the process transparent and accountable.Through UAN, employees will no longer have to apply for transfer of provident fund (PF) accounts claim, while switching job anywhere in the country, reducing time in funds transfer.The event is likely to see convergence of three schemes for the unorganised sector  Rashtriya Swastha Bima Yojana, Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana and Indira Gandhi National Old Pension Scheme.

Faced with a resource and credit crunch in the banking sector, the State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) on Wednesday lowered the bar for the Annual Credit Plan (ACP), also called the total priority plan, for 36 districts in the State.The target is a realistic Rs. 4.24 lakh crore as against Rs. 4.34 lakh crore the previous year, in the face of consistent negative year-on-year growth owing to low offtake in the agriculture sector, officials said. Last years target was one of the highest in the country.The committee members said there is a dip in demand for credit. The total plan for agriculture has been set at Rs. 87,322 crore this time, as compared to Rs. 85,464 crore the previous year. There is generally a low demand for credit. Otherwise too, banks are facing a resource crunch. This is one of the reasons the target set this time appears to be more realistic in nature, said a senior bureaucrat.In 2018-19, the committee had accepted an ambitious plan target of Rs. 4,34,591 crore but managed to achieve only 73% of it at the end of the financial year.During the corresponding period of the previous year, the achievement was 76%, and 96% in 2016-17, according to the data.Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis urged bankers to think less commercial and more agriculture. He appealed to banks to fully achieve the latest target, giving maximum loans to farmers and bringing them into institutional credit system. This forum is not commercial. Crop loans are to save our farmers from private borrowing. We need to understand the socio-economical aspect. Agriculture is the most important aspect of our economy and (a major) contributor to GDP. Bankers need to make agriculture their priority, said Mr. Fadnavis.The 143rd meeting of the SLBC also discussed the poor monsoon scenario in the State, with only 73.60% of the normal rainfall recorded between June 2018 and October 2018. As many as 41 talukas received below 50% rainfall, the forum was told.The banks also presented the latest additions to various schemes, including 11.22 lakh subscribers under the Atal Pension Yojana, 40.22 lakh enrolment in the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and 97 lakh in the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Beema Yojana.Under the newly-approved Stand Up India, Rs. 62,973 lakh was disbursed to 3,717 beneficiaries.The Government of India had launched the scheme to facilitate loans between Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 1 crore to Scheduled Case and Scheduled Tribe borrowers.Officials said preparations for the Annual Credit Plan begin in February every year. The State credit plan is prepared by consolidating the District Credit Plan and after discussing it in the SLBC.

The sudden demonetisation policy and the consequent cash crunch have resulted in unusual repercussions for employers and wage workers.Employers are worried that once the wages of the seasonal, migrant, casual, temporary workers  whom they usually hire without a legal contract  are paid through cheque or direct deposits in bank accounts, it could be treated as proof of employment. This could then help such workers to claim that they should technically be considered as part of the payroll and be made eligible for statutory benefits.On the other hand, labourers, many of whom belonging to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) category, fear that they might lose various benefits provided by the government for the poor (including food security-related, pension, medical treatment, as well as benefits meant for the girl child and economically weaker sections) if it is found that the wages getting credited in their bank accounts are more than the stipulated income thresholds for availing such benefits.Employment proofWage payment in cash meant employers and workers did not have to lose sleep over such concerns before the demonetisation exercise. These apprehensions were voiced by representatives from various export segments, including from labour-intensive sectors such as agriculture, leather, textiles, carpets, handicrafts and engineering, during a meeting with the commerce ministry officials on Tuesday, official sources told The Hindu .Out of Indias total workforce of about 474 million, about 75 per cent do not have written legal contracts and about 80 per cent do not get any social security benefits. The demonetisation policy has severely affected the workers covered by the cash economy, said K.R. Shyam Sundar, professor, Human Resource Management, XLRI.If the situation leads to workers getting paid only through their bank accounts, they can show that as proof of employment to claim statutory benefits including those related to the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), Employees Provident Fund (EPF), accident compensation and maternity.He added that in the long-term, trade unions can take this as an agenda for further agitation to regularise wage payments across the country.Short-term focusHowever, Mr. Sundar said, workers generally consider only short-term benefits, and to ensure more disposable income with them, they tell their employers not to pay them wages through cheque or through the banking channel as they do not want any deductions from their wages or salary towards EPF and ESIC benefits. Moreover, since most of these workers constantly shift places of work, contractors and employers, they also do not trust the EPF and ESIC systems and prefer cash payments.Anjali Bhardwaj, founder of the NGO Satark Nagrik Sangathan, said demonetisation and the ensuing wage payments through the banking channel could lead to discussions on whether there is under-reporting of wages and if some workers with higher wages would lose benefits granted by the government including under the Food Security Act.Labourers in theBPL category fear that they may lose state benefits meant for the poor

If industries/businesses in the organised sector that employed 20 or more persons can generate 55 lakh new jobs in a year that qualified for enrolment under the EPFO, then we can declare that India has, truly and comprehensively, slain the demon of unemployment! If industries/businesses in the organised sector that employed 20 or more persons can generate 55 lakh new jobs in a year that qualified for enrolment under the EPFO, then we can declare that India has, truly and comprehensively, slain the demon of unemployment!Prof Pulak Ghosh and Dr Soumya Kanti Ghosh are respected academics. They created a minor storm recently when they claimed that 70 lakh new payroll jobs will be created in India in the organised sector in 2017-18.The authors explained that payroll job is a job where the employee has enrolled under the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) or Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) or National Pension Scheme (NPS) or Government Provident Fund (GPF). Enrolment under one of the four schemes is certainly evidence that the employee is on the payroll of an employer  private sector or public sector or government or parastatal body.Seventy lakh new jobs is a claim that will take ones breath away. In the same article, the authors reported that the total payroll stock as on March 31, 2017, was 919 lakh. So, it has taken the country 70 years to create a payroll stock of 919 lakh jobs but, miraculously, in just 12 months, the country will generate 70 lakh new payroll jobs  that is nearly 7.5 per cent of the current stock!The EPFO surpriseThe largest subset of the stock of payroll jobs is EPFO-enrolled jobs. The authors reported that the EPFO manages a corpus of over Rs 11 lakh crore for its estimated 550 lakh subscribers across jurisdictions in over 190 industries employing more than 20+ people. According to the authors, 45.4 lakh new subscribers in the age band 18-25 years had enrolled under the EPFO in 2016-17 and started making their monthly contributions to the Fund. They also found that 36.8 lakh new subscribers in the same age band had enrolled between April and November 2017 and, therefore, they estimated that, for the full year 2017-18, 55.2 lakh new subscribers would be enrolled.If industries/businesses in the organised sector that employed 20 or more persons can generate 55 lakh new jobs in a year that qualified for enrolment under the EPFO, then we can declare that India has, truly and comprehensively, slain the demon of unemployment!To the above jobs we must add new jobs in businesses in the organised sector that employed less than 20 persons; new jobs in the unorganised or unregulated sector  this will include micro and small enterprises (running into millions); new jobs in the farm sector; new casual and temporary jobs such as loader, courier, messenger etc; and new jobs in the illegitimate economy.If we assume that for every payroll job counted by the authors there will be another job created in the sectors that I have listed above, then the count will rise to 140 lakh in 2017-18. According to the Ghoshs report, 150 lakh persons enter the labour force every year of which 66 lakh is skilled manpower. Soon, the problem will not be joblessness but lack of jobseekers! (By way of comparison, China, which has a GDP five times that of Indias, adds about 150 lakh jobs a year.)Hence, the crucial numbers that must be validated are the new EPFO-enrolled jobs  45.4 lakh in 2016-17 and 55.2 lakh in 2017-18. If these numbers are valid, the claim of 70 lakh new payroll jobs in 2017-18 may be accepted.The DissentMr Jairam Ramesh and Mr Praveen Chakravarty are also respected academics.The two of them, in a jointly authored article, questioned the Ghoshs report. They argued that a new registration in any year did not mean a new job was created in that year; it could mean that an informal job was formalised and a non-subscriber became a subscriber in that year. According to them, demonetisation forced formalisation of jobs post November 2016 and the GST forced formal registration of businesses post July 2017, and the formalisation happened in 2017-18. (While formalisation was a gain, demonetisation and the GST also caused job losses and closure of thousands of small and micro businesses.) They also pointed out that the limited data available in the public domain indicated that the number of contributing members in the EPFO grew by 7 per cent in 2014-15 and 8 per cent in 2015-16 but, according to the Ghoshs report, the number jumped by 20 per cent in 2016-17 and by a further 23 per cent up to December 2017.Prof Ghosh and Dr Ghosh posted a reply to the criticism. They asserted that they had counted only first-time employees and had taken care to delete a large number of EPFO account-holders who did not satisfy the strict criteria. The only concession they were willing to make was that the number of 70 lakh was a gross figure that included vacancies that were filled after the incumbent had retired.Two demandsThe debate stands at an interesting stage. It is evident that the Ghoshs were given privileged access to data that is not in the public domain. So, firstly, the government must put all the EPFO subscriber data in the public domain; secondly, Prof Ghosh and Dr Ghosh must apply the same methodology and compute the number of EPFO-enrolled new jobs that were created in 2014-15 and 2015-16, the two NDA years before demonetisation and the GST. They should go further and compute the numbers for the UPA years (2004-2014) as well.It is only a time series of data that will reveal the truth. Otherwise, the 70 lakh jobs claim will remain a boast and, in course of time, be regarded as a bluff.For all the latest Opinion News, download Indian Express App

Ficci wants labour laws shifted to state listNew Delhi, Aug 23, 2014 (IANS): 15:19 ISTThe Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) Friday urged the government to shift labour laws from the concurrent to the state list with a view to attract more investment."There is a need to shift labour from the concurrent list to the state list for allowing state governments greater freedom in formulating labour policies to attract higher investments," it said in a charter submitted to Labour Minister Narendra Singh Tomar here.Noting that antiquated labour laws had blocked employment generation and competitiveness of enterprises, it said employment growth was at an average of 1.6 percent in the past decade (2000-09) as against eight percent envisaged."There is a need to minimise and simplify labour laws for better compliance by regrouping them into four categories, governing terms of employment under the Industrial Disputes Act, Industrial Employment Act and Trade Unions Act," the charter said.Similarly, laws governing wages should be consolidated under the Minimum Wages Act, Payment of Wages Act and Payment of Bonus Act.Laws governing welfare need to be consolidated under the Factories Act, Shops and Establishments Act, Maternity Benefits Act, Employees Compensation Act and Contract Labour Act.Likewise, laws governing social security should be clubbed under the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act as well as the Employees State Insurance Act and Payment of Gratuity Act."A uniform definition of 'employee', 'industry' and 'wages' across labour legislations will minimise litigation," the paper said.The Ficci has sought to limit the Industrial Disputes Act to employees receiving salary up to Rs.20,000 a month and exclude those drawing higher salary as they have statutory protection.The paper also sought a uniform practice of serving 14-day compulsory notice to go on strike or declare a lockout as the provision is applicable to units engaged in public utility services.It called for adopting the practice of "strike ballot" by trade unions as done in developed countries like Britain, Germany and Australia."As seeking government permission to retrench, shut down or lay off by companies with 100 employees is retrograde, its provision in the Industrial Disputes Act has to be revised for applying it to firms employing 300 people, as recommended by the second national commission of labour," the charter said.The Ficci favoured re-introducing the fixed term employment under the Industrial Employment Act for executing time-bound and short-term projects. The fixed term was repealed by the previous (UPA) government.With the industry facing difficulty in hiring additional workers for short-term contracts due to abolition of contract labour from one project to another, it has suggested deleting section 10 of the relevant act to engage contract workers.

The Modi government has been extremely sensitive about criticism that the economy may be growing at over 7 per cent but it has not led to the creation of jobs. ShutterstockTwo independent members of the National Statistical Commission have resigned because of a reported disagreement with the Narendra Modi government over its failure to publish a report on employment that had been prepared last month.The two members are P.C. Mohanan and J.V. Meenakshi. Mohanan was also the commissions acting chairperson.The commission is now left with only two members: chief statistician Pravin Srivastava and Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant.The two members have resigned from the National Statistical Commission and tendered their resignation on January 28, an official said.Mohanan told a news website he had decided to quit because he felt he wasnt making any effective contribution. We are not discharging the duties of the commission, he added.He said one of the reasons he had decided to quit was the governments failure to release the jobs report. We have approved the report, but they have not released it, I dont know why, he told Scroll, the website.The tenure of Mohanan and Meenakshi was to end in June 2020. They had joined as members of the NSC in June 2017.The Modi government has been extremely sensitive about criticism that the economy may be growing at over 7 per cent but it hasnt led to the creation of jobs.Over the past year, the government has refused to release reports by the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) and its labour bureau. Instead, it has tried to extrapolate statistics based on payroll data sourced from the Employees Provident Fund Organisation, Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) and the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) to show that there has been a steady increase in jobs in the past four years.Four days ago, the government put out statistics to show that more than 18 million jobs had been generated in the country's formal sector during a 15-month period starting September 2017 and ending November 2018.But several studies have contested the governments claims.According to the International Labour Organisation (ILO), Indias unemployment rate was recorded at 3.5 per cent in 2018 and it could grow in 2019. The data suggested that there will be 18.9 million or jobless people in India in 2019.A study the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) said that Indias unemployment rate had shot up to 7.4 per cent in December 2018.This is the highest unemployment rate weve seen in 15 months, said Mahesh Vyas of CMIE. The rate has increased sharply from the 6.6 per cent clocked in November. The climb to 7.4 per cent also indicates that the small fall in the unemployment rate seen in November was possibly an aberration in a trend that indicates a steady increase in the unemployment rate.The count of unemployed has been increasing steadily. Over the year ended December 2018, it increased by a substantial 11 million. Correspondingly, the count of the employed is declining. In December 2018, an estimated 397 million were employed. This is nearly 11 million less than the employment estimate for December 2017, Vyas wrote in a report.This isnt the first time that the government has run into controversy over reports prepared by the National Statistical Commission.In November last year, the Niti Aayog had come under fire for announcing the revised GDP data of the UPA years.Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar and Chief Statistician Srivastava had announced the back-series data by the government in an attempt to show that economic growth during the NDA regime was far higher than that during the 10-year UPA tenure.In the process, the government was trying to head off the embarrassment sparked last August when the National Statistical Commission had come out with figures that claimed that the earlier Congress-led government under Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had achieved a double-digit growth rate of 10.8 per cent in 2010-11.The Central Statistics Office (CSO) said the average growth rate during the UPA regime tenure of 2005-14 was 6.7 per cent compared with the NDA growth of 7.3 per cent in 2015-18.Back in August, an NSC sub-committee headed by Sudipto Mundle, emeritus professor of the National Institute of Public Policy, had estimated that the average growth during the decade-long UPA tenure was 8 per cent compared with 7.3 per cent during the NDA regime.The Mundle committee had triggered a controversy - and created bragging rights for the UPA  after it calculated the new growth rates for the years 1994-95 to 2013-14 on the base year of 2011-12, thereby creating a back series enabling like-to-like comparison.Recalibrating data of past years using 2011-12 as the base year instead of 2004-05, the Central Statistics Office (CSO) estimated that Indias GDP grew by 8.1 per cent in 2006-07 and not 9.7 per cent as estimated by the Mundle report.Similarly, the Mundle reports estimate of a growth rate of 9.6 per cent in 2005-06 and 10.2 per cent in 2007-08 were lowered to 7.9 per cent and 7.7 per cent, respectively.

The government is finalising a slew of tax concessions for life insurance policy holders including the possibility of additional tax breaks for pension schemes and removal of service tax on first-year premium payments.The revenue department will examine whether, in addition to the National Pension Scheme (NPS), some pension products that insurance companies offer can be included in a separate limit over and above the Rs 100,000 limit allowed under section 80C of the Income Tax Act, finance minister P Chidambaram said on Monday.Also, insurance firms will be allowed to invest in infrastructure projects that will enable companies to dig into household savings to raise resources for building expressways, ports and railways.The finance minister said he has asked the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) and Central Board of Excise and Customs (CBEC) to give their report on the changes in the tax structure for life insurance companies by October 10.Chidambaram had recently discussed these measures in a meeting with chief executives of life insurance companies on September 4.A number of steps would be necessary and desirable to give a fillip to the life insurance industry and expand the spread and penetration of life insurance were agreed upon during the discussions, said the finance minister.The government is also examining whether social security insurance schemes such as Janashri Bima Yojana (JBY) and Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana (AABY), can be exempted from service tax, Chidambaram added.The Central Board of Direct Taxes will examine whether income tax breaks can be given to contributions made to post-retirement medical scheme offered by insurance companies.Besides, insurance companies will also not carry out additional know-your-customer (KYC) checks for persons who have bank accounts.Banks will also be given the status of brokers mandated to sell products of more than one insurance company offering the customer a bouquet of policies as opposed to the current one-bank-one-insurance company policy.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing a public rally at a function to launch various developmental schemes, at DLW Ground, Varanasi on Friday. (PTI Photo)It wasnt a very comfortable day for local BJP leaders when PM Narendra Modi made his third visit to Varanasi Friday. Reason: while holding a closed door meeting, the PM took stock of the efforts made by the leaders in his Lok Sabha constituency.Bataiye bhaiyya, sangathan ne aisa 2-3 maah me kya kiya jisse hamara janadhar badha (Tell me, what has BJP done in the last two-three months to increase the mandate for the BJP)?, a source present in the meeting quoted the PM as saying.Sources said, over a half a dozen leaders were allowed to speak with most praising the central schemes. A leader suggested that the mandate could be increased if party workers moved among the public everyday and reached every section of society with schemes such as Atal Pension Yojana, PM Jeevan Suraksha Jyoti Yojana, PM Suraksha Bima Yojana, PM Jan Dhan Yojana, Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana and Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao Yojana.The PM reportedly asked the leaders to focus on implementation of Swacch Bharat Abhiyan in Varanasi by running campaigns to clean streets as it will draw the attention of public while the Opposition would not be able to criticise any such work.After the meeting, when PM reached DLW ground for launching infrastructure projects, local mayor Ram Gopal Mohle, local BJP MLAs and MLCs were not present. BJPs Kashi region president and MLC Laxman Acharya and Chandauli MP Mahendra Nath Pandey, who were addressing the public, were also nowhere to be seen after PM reached the venue.Acharya, however, claimed that the PM was happy with the the work of the party organisation. MLAs and Mayor had left early to reach the airport to see off the PM. Hence we were not present at the event, Acharya claimed.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App

New Delhi, Nov. 22 (PTI): Finance minister Arun Jaitley will meet heads of PSU banks tomorrow to discuss various issues, including bad loans and interest rate reductions in light of the RBI's policy rate cut in September.The meeting will also take stock of the credit flow to productive sectors to spur the economy and review the seven-pronged strategy called "Indradhanush" to revive PSU banks, sources said.The Centre had announced the programme in August. It includes a Rs 70,000-crore capital infusion in PSU banks in four years, starting with Rs 25,000 crore this fiscal, and measures to de-stress lenders by introducing governance reforms.The gross non-performing assets of PSU lenders rose to 6.03 per cent at the end of June from 5.20 per cent in March.Sources said the meeting was expected to review credit offtake by sectors such as home, education and corporate houses as well as the progress made under the Jan Dhan Yojana and the Prime Minister's social security schemes.The meeting will also examine the steps taken by lenders in the aftermath of the Rs 6,100-crore Bank of Baroda black money remittance case to avoid such episodes in the future.Jaitley is expected to review the interest rate cut by banks, following the reduction in the key repo rate to 6.75 per cent by the RBI in September.The progress of Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency (Mudra) is also likely to feature in the talks.Profit slideProfits of the banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) sector dropped 3 per cent in the second quarter of this fiscal owing to weak revenue growth and higher provisions, a report by Kotak Institutional Equities said.Earnings were earlier expected "to move to the positive zone" during July-September quarter, but remained sluggish. The report also noted that gross non-performing loans (NPLs) increased to 4.3 per cent of the advances. NPLs stood at 5.3 per cent for public sector lenders and 2.1 per cent for private banks.In its September bi-monthly monetary policy review, the apex bank had cut interest rate by a higher-than-expected 0.5 per cent. The repo rate has subsequently come down from 7.25 per centhree social security schemes - Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana - and the

Budget speeches are not just a tool to signal a governments priorities for the year ahead and the not-too-foreseeable future, but also a mechanism to move attention away from past promises with newer, presumably catchier ones  usually without explaining why the earlier ideas didnt work out.Finance Minister Arun Jaitleys 2016-17 Budget speech aimed to signal the governments commitment to the weakest sections of society, but all of that has been hijacked by the brouhaha over the tax he introduced on provident fund savings. With the National Democratic Alliances (NDA) allies, trade unions and even Cabinet ministers revolting instantly against the idea, North Block has been scrambling to generate alternative narratives on the move. This was most stark on the first day after the Budget, by when the Prime Ministers Office had sought an explanation on the issue and at least three different versions on how the tax would be implemented were put forth by the Finance Ministrys top officials.So what drove the government and, more specifically, Finance Ministry mandarins to paint themselves into a corner like this? Cuing back to the NDAs previous two Budgets may provide a clue to whether its amnesia, dogged pursuit of an unfulfilled goal, or a bit of both, that is to blame for the current mess.Welfare of Senior Citizens: 2014-15This was the subhead Mr. Jaitley used for three paragraphs relating to social security in his maiden Budget presented for nine months of the year. He began by offering a limited revival of the Varishtha Pension Bima Yojana (VPBY) that was started by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee regime well over a decade ago.He then set his eyes on the large amount of money lying as unclaimed amounts in Public Provident Fund, post office saving schemes and other such accounts. I propose to set up a committee to examine how this amount can be used to protect and further financial interests of the senior citizens, he said, setting a stiff six-month deadline for it. In those six months, the committee met just twice.Mr. Jaitley also asserted the newly elected NDA governments commitment to the social security and welfare of employees serving in the organised sector. To prove this, it extended a minimum pension of Rs.1,000 for all members of the employees pension scheme run by the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). It also raised the wage ceiling for mandatory Employees Pension Scheme (EPS) membership from Rs.6,500 per month to Rs.15,000 per month.An EPF account is mandatory for all employees earning up to Rs.15,000 per month in firms employing over 20 workers. As per the law, 24 per cent of an employees salary (12 per cent as employees share and 12 per cent as employers share) is contributed to EPFO as a social security net for old age  a little over a third of that (8.33 per cent) is diverted to the EPS, with the government chipping in with a 1.16 per cent subsidy.The Finance Ministry should have known about this pension scheme  it provides for it every year and put in an additional Rs.250 crore that year. But consider what Minister of State for Finance Jayant Sinha said when questioned about one of the narratives floated by the Finance Ministry to dodge the EPF tax backlash. The ministry has said that EPF savings will remain tax-free if three-fifths of the corpus is used to buy an annuity and get a monthly pension. Does every EPF account have a pension component? he asked this week in response to a query on why EPF members need to have two pensions.Jan-Dhan to Jan Suraksha: 2015-16The number of paragraphs devoted to social security went up to seven in Mr. Jaitleys second Budget as he announced three new schemes as part of the governments commitment that no Indian citizen will have to worry about illness, accidents, or penury in old age. Worryingly, as our young population ages, it is also going to be pensionless. Encouraged by the success of the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana, I propose to work towards creating a universal social security system for all Indians, especially the poor and the underprivileged, the Finance Minister said.The schemes he unveiled: a Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (accidental death cover of Rs.2 lakh at Rs.12 premium a year), an Atal Pension Yojana that would give a fixed pension (with a limited co-contribution up to Rs.1,000 from the government), the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (natural and accidental death risk cover of Rs.2 lakh at Rs.330 premium a year) and a scheme for providing physical aids and assisted living devices for senior citizens living below the poverty line.It is not clear if the committee on unclaimed deposits he had set up in the previous Budget had given its report, but the Finance Minister returned to the theme and said about Rs.9,000 crore lying unclaimed in PPF and EPF accounts would be appropriated to a new Senior Citizen Welfare Fund.Rules for Senior Citizen Welfare Fund have been finalised, the Budget 2016-17 documents say. However, the idea of forfeiting unclaimed savings of people has not passed legal muster as it would violate the fiduciary trust vested by investors in the trustees of these funds.Mr. Jaitley also remarked that both EPF and Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC, that provides medical care to organised sector workers) have hostages, rather than clients and workers with low incomes suffer on account of high statutory deductions to such schemes. He promised to provide employees the option to leave the EPF and opt for the New Pension Scheme (NPS) launched by the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA). He also said that employees below a certain level of monthly income could decide if they wanted to stop their own contributions (12 per cent of salary) to the EPF. He offered a similar option for workers to opt for a health insurance product instead of ESI.For NPS, an additional tax sop of Rs.50,000 was given for investments beyond Rs.1.5 lakh that are tax deductible under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act; 2.8 million new members joined the scheme, partly driven by this move, taking its corpus to Rs.1.10 lakh crore from 11.5 million accounts, said PFRDA Chairman Hemant Contractor.Meanwhile, the Law Ministry is still vetting the legislation to amend the EPF Act of 1952, while a draft Cabinet note is doing the rounds on amending the ESI Act of 1948. So these announcements remain non-starters as of now.Towards a pensioned societyThe latest Budget made a pensioned society one of the nine new pillars for growth, but devoted just five unusual paras with 188 words that reflect the circuitous route the NDA is taking on social security, partly driven by amnesia and the failure to meet its previous Budgets pursuit to make the countrys largest retirement fund (with Rs.10 lakh crore) unattractive. It levied a tax on EPF savings (run by the Labour Ministry) in order to make the NPS (promoted by the Finance Ministry) even more attractive.We are so obsessed with the semantics of such inconsequential and immaterial things that the big picture is always lost sight of. And the big picture is most Indians dont have any social security to speak of, be it pension or health care, points out Amit Gopal, senior vice president at India Life Capital, adding that it is rare for a Budget social security promise to be effective as there is never a system-wide view.If EPF savings are to be taxed, the same rules should apply for PPF and government employees PF for true parity in tax treatment that leads to seamless choices. A lot has been and will be said in the coming days on this till the Prime Minister takes a final call on the fate of the EPF tax. A recently retired Central Provident Fund Commissioner, however, suggests a smarter alternative to avoid such fracas. Instead of these NPS vs EPFO games, just bring the EPFO under the Finance Ministry as well and take a fresh look at how to ensure pensions for those who have no formal employment contracts and access to either of the two schemes, he says, referring to 82 per cent of the workforce that still gets by with informal and vulnerable jobs.The Economic Survey for 2015-16 talked about creating good jobs for the countrys youth, by rationalising the statutory deductions from salaries (like EPF) that hit take-home salaries and force people to opt for non-formal employment even in the organised sector. The Finance Ministers previous Budget already said a start would be made on this by making employee PF contributions optional. Implementing that would have delivered more goodwill for the NDA, while spurring up domestic demand. Instead, a fractious debate diverts attention from a fragmented social security system that only focuses on a little over 10 per cent of the workforce, and blue-sky promises from the past remain buried in red tape.vikas.dhoot@thehindu.co.inIf EPF savings are to be taxed, the same rules should apply for PPF and government employees PF for true parity in tax treatment that leads to seamless choices.

Santosh Gangwar, Union Labour Minister. Express Photo By Amit Mehra. Santosh Gangwar, Union Labour Minister. Express Photo By Amit Mehra.Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar today said a parliamentary standing committee has finalised its report on first labour code, Wage Code Bill 2017, and the legislation would be pushed for passage in the monsoon session of Parliament after the document is submitted. The law will enable the central government to set benchmark minimum wages for different regions across the country. The bills provision provides that states cannot set minimum wages below the benchmark set by the Centre.I have spoken to the chairman of the committee (regarding finalisation of its report on Wage Code Bill). He told me that everything is completed and it will be submitted soon. We will push (the bill) for passage, Gangwar told reporters on the sidelines of the International Labour Day.The draft code on the bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in August 2017. Thereafter, it was referred to the committee for scrutiny which is expected to submit its report in the monsoon session. The bill also seeks to combine Payment of Wages Act, 1936, the Minimum Wages Act, 1949, the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965, and the Equal Remuneration Act, 1976, into one code.A senior official said that if everything goes well, the bill can be pushed for passage in the forthcoming monsoon session of Parliament. Speaking at the International Labour Day celebrations here, Gangwar said the labour ministry wants 38 labour laws to be subsumed into four broad codes  wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational safety and health and working conditions.The codification of labour laws will remove the multiplicity of definitions and authorities, leading to ease of compliance without compromising wage security and social security to workers. On this occasion, Union Transport and Higways Minister Nitin Gadkari suggested that the labour ministry needs to come out with out of the box thinking to improve conditions of workers in the country and should encourage more use of technologies to improve delivery of benefits to them.He also that technology can help reduce pendency of cases related to workers in labour courts and tribunals. On this occasion, Gangwar and Gadkari launched one unified registration form for Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC). At present, employers are filing two different forms separately to register with the EPFO and ESIC.A worker at the rennovation site of Crawford Market on Thursday. Express photo by Janak Rathod, 1st February 2018, Mumbai. A worker at the rennovation site of Crawford Market on Thursday. Express photo by Janak Rathod, 1st February 2018, Mumbai.Besides, the two ministers also launched one unified electronic challan-cum-return (ECR or return) to facilitate filing of EPFO and ESIC return through a unified process only.On this occasion, the chief labour commissioner (CLC) said that in order to achieve transparency, accountability and ease of compliance in the enforcement of labour laws, there is a facility to fill online annual return under eight labour laws on SSP (Shram Suvidha Portal) and a transparent and accountable system of inspection through SSP. Moreover, it was also announced that the CLC will issue online registration certificates under Building and Other Construction Workers Act, 1996, Inter State Migrant Workers Act, 1979 and Contract Labour Act, 1970.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App

Indias most important labour reform has nothing to do with the ability to fire employees. PTIIndias economically questionable employee benefits regime means that the take-home salary of someone earning Rs 55,000 per month is only 9 per cent less than their gross salary, while the take-home salary of a person who earns Rs 5,500 a month is 49 per cent less than their gross salary.While labour law reform is often equated with the ability of employers to freely hire and fire their employees, India will benefit more from fixing the current regressive benefits regime, which requires six-times greater deductions for a person earning a 10-times lower salary, is not competitive, and has ensured that 100 per cent of net job creation since 1991 has taken place in the informal sector. This war on formal employment has poisonous consequences  lower tax collection, uneven productivity, poor working conditions, lack of minimum wage enforcement and small firm size (80 per cent of Indias garment production takes place in units employing less than 15 people while 80 per cent of Chinas takes place in units with more than 200 employees). Formal employment growth will be explosive if only five changes are made.One, the mandatory 12 per cent employee provident fund contribution must be abolished. That provident funds are a means of providing social security is a myth. The median retirement amount in India is Rs 25,000. Poor management and harassment by the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has created 50 million orphan accounts and unclaimed balances that are no longer being credited with interest. The myopia argument  that low wage workers need to be protected from themselves  is superfluous because payroll deduction rates cant be higher than the savings rate. Instead of raising the salary cap, abolishing this 12 per cent will raise take-home incomes and eliminate employees reluctance for formal employment.Two, the employee pension scheme must be scrapped and we must move back to the pre-1995 status. In 1995, the EPFO diverted 80 per cent of employer contributions towards the poorly designed employee pension scheme (EPS). EPSs liabilities were, at last count, officially estimated at Rs 50,000 crore more than its assets. The EPFOs attempts to fill this hole by reducing benefits are a default, and employees should be allowed to opt out of EPS and revert back to pre-1995 defined contribution accounts. EPS not only has the birth defect of benefits and contributions being defined but it also provides a lower monthly pension relative to a deferred annuity from LIC or bank interest on the retirement lump sum. Making the minimum pension Rs 1,000  as was done last week  is election politics. It will only make things much worse.Three, employees must be allowed to choose between the EPFO and the national pension scheme. The EPFO is the most expensive government securities mutual fund in the world with costs equivalent to 4.4 per cent of contributions. Most gilt funds  even public sector ones  charge 0.25 per cent of contributions. Giving employees an option to pay their monthly provident fund dues to either the EPFO or the national pension scheme will create a portable back-pack pension with higher competition and lower costs.Four, employees must be allowed to choose between the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) and health insurance. The health insurance programme run by the ESIC provides poor value for money, with only 48 per cent of contributions being paid out as benefits. Most private and public health insurance plans have a 100 per cent-plus claims ratio. The unfair payout ratio has allowed ESIC to unfairly accumulate Rs 28,000 crore in reserves, which are currently invested in government securities and bank deposits. Employees must be given an option to opt out of the ESIC programme and pay their monthly contributions to any IRDA-regulated health insurance plan.Five, the five-year limit must be abolished or gratuity must be removed. Gratuity is a defined benefit lump sum payable at the time of retirement to the employee. It gives the employee 15-days of salary for every year of service. But this benefit is only applicable after five years of service, and as the employment contract has morphed from a lifetime contract to a taxicab relationship, most employees with short tenures do not get gratuity benefits. The political optics of abolishing gratuity make that infeasible. It is better to remove the five-year limit and create a monthly or annual payment option to create transparency and fairness since gratuity is built into most cost-to-company calculations.Benefits regimes are innovating globally because of demographic challenges and a realisation that employee benefits are not over and above gross salary but come out of it. Chrysler is owned by retirees who got their stake in lieu of unfunded pensions. Britain recently introduced a new employment contract for employee owners who surrender the right to redundancy payments in exchange for capital gains-exempt equity. This scheme will probably fail for reasons similar to why equity for land failed in India  what the price should be, who bears project-failure risk, who gives liquidity, etc. But policymakers trying to catalyse job creation in France, Spain, USA, Japan, Brazil and China agree that one size does not fit all and are experimenting with giving employees more control over how they are paid.Informal employment is the slavery of the 21st Century. Only 8 per cent of Indias labour force gets minimum wages, employment benefits, safe working conditions and leave benefits. Increasing formal job creation is Indias biggest challenge and the right place to start that tricky journey is fixing our toxic employment benefits regime.The writer is chairman, Teamlease ServicesFor all the latest Opinion News, download Indian Express App

Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave the Budget a thumbs-up on Saturday, saying it would further reignite Indias growth engine and signal the dawn of a prosperous future for the country.From housing for all, jobs, health, education & total electrification, FM laid down goals to be achieved by 2022, India's Amrut Mahotsav, the PM tweeted, as finance minister Arun Jaitley unveiled grand plans to put a roof over every Indians head before Indias 75th Independence Day.Union Budget 2015 is a Budget with a clear vision. It is a Budget that is progressive, positive, practical, pragmatic & prudent, Modi tweeted.Other proposals were also received positively by the PM, who said the Budget had distinct focus on farmers, youth, poor, neo-middle class & the Aam Nagrik (common citizen). It delivers on growth, equity & job creation, he wrote on the microblogging site. Jaitley announced a raft of measures to prop up the social sector and bring more Indians under insurance and pension covers. He also increased allocation for the UPAs flagship rural employment programme, MNREGA.Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana, Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Vidya Lakshmi Karyakram mark a shift from Jan Dhan to Jan Kalyan (welfare of the people), Modi wrote on Twitter, a reference to a slew of insurance and pension projects that aim to insure Indians at nominal premium charges.The PM congratulated the finance minister for the tough measures announced to curb black money. Details of the Black Money law being introduced demonstrates our firm commitment to bring back every Rupee of Black Money stashed abroad, Modi tweeted. The Budget announced plans to disincentivise cash transactions and a new law to tackle illegal money that would include rigorous imprisonment up to 10 years for defaulters.The Budget also focussed on the eastern and northeastern states with Jaitley saying Bihar and West Bengal would be the biggest beneficiaries of the finance commissions recommendations to increase the states share in revenues. Bihar and West Bengal would also be given special assistance, the FM said.Budget indicates our commitment to ensure that development of Eastern & Northeastern parts of India gets an impetus & drives future growth, the PM tweeted.

NEW DELHI: As government prepares to showcase its achievements on completion of one year in office, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided to launch the anniversary celebrations with a rally in Nagla Chandrabhan, a small village in Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, on May 25.The village is the birthplace of former Jan Sangh president and ideologue Deendayal Upadhyay, whom the party has been consistently trying to project as a bulwark against the influence of deeply entrenched Nehruvian legacy on Indian political thought.The move is consistent with the larger plan of BJP and Sangh Parivar to mainstream the persona and ideas of Upadhyay who gave the only textual policy framework and written ideological roadmap to a party often painted as one coming from an "intellectually deficient" movement.In the past one year, projection of Updhyay has been writ large on most schemes that the government has announced and several programmes organized by RSS. While schemes such as Antyodaya and skill development programme have been directly named after the leader, party sources say even the big ticket economic reforms such as FDI in insurance, Jan Dhan Yojana or the recently announced Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana" (accident insurance), " Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Yojana" (life insurance) and "Atal Pension Yojana" all draw from Upadhyay's idea of reaching the last man in the queue.RSS, celebrating 50 years of "integral humanism"a political philosophy propounded by Upadhyay and which BJP swears byhas already begun to organize lectures and conferences across the country to popularise Upadhyay's image and ideas. Two such conferences, part of the 40,000-odd planned, concluded last week in Thiruvananthapuram and Varanasi.Last year, CBSE, whose books have never featured Upadhyay in any context, held a nationwide writing competition in the name of 'Expression Series' about the life and times of "renowned thinker Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay".For a man who was neither the founder of Jan Sangh (BJP's mother party), nor its first president nor an electorally successful politicianhe lost the only election he fought from a Sangh strongholdthis projection may seem out of character. But for the Sangh, Upadhyay is the most potent force of all Sangh icons to override the 'Nehruvian consensus'."Upadhyay was the only man who gave BJP a cogent political philosophy based on Sangh ideology. Unlike Syama Prasad Mookerjee (founder of Jan Sangh) who died in 1953, Upadhyay lived through the Nehruvian era. He was thus able to critique it and come up with an alternative political and economic theory. He has critiqued several of Nehruvian ideas including the Planning Commission that does not exist anymore," says Anirban Ganguly of BJP-affiliated Syama Prasad Mookerjee Foundation.Others feel Upadhyay's importance goes beyond the context of Nehru. RSS volunteer and chief of BJP's foreign cell, Vijay Chauthaiwale, says, "For BJP, Upadhyay is an example of how a political leader should be. In his simplicity and commitment, he was very close to Mahatma Gandhi. He is the moral compass of BJP. Almost all schemes launched by the PM are aimed at benefitting the bottom of the pyramid. It is all fundamentally the grand scheme of antyodaya, propounded by Upadhyay."Mahesh Chandra Sharma, former MP and chairman of Research and Development Foundation for Integral Humanism, says the Modi government has adapted Upadhyay's idea of Swadeshi to modern compulsions of a globalised economy. "Make in India is an example. It's not conforming to Upadhyay's ideas completely, but is as close as it can get given the current economic compulsions. If we can't have 'Made by India', 'Make in India' will do just fine," he says.Former RSS pracharak, ex-editor of Panchjanya and historian Devendra Swaroop, who has personally witnessed and chronicled the lives and works of most leaders of Jan Sangh, considers Upadhyay a greater personality than Mookerjee.

File photo used for representational purposeIndustry urges govt to retain labourersCHANDIGARH: Out of over 2.55 lakh industries registered in Punjab, hardly 13,671, which is about 5%, started operations till Monday amid the Covid-19 curfew. The state government has allowed functional industries to employ around 3.88 lakh workers to resume operations. This means that hardly 16% of the 24 lakh labourers in Punjab are employed as of now. In the past one week, over 1.83 lakh industrial units approached the state government to resume operations.At the request of industrial units, the state industries department granted them permission to engage over 1.83 lakh workers on their premises after May 3. Director, industries and commerce, Punjab, Sibin C said, Now, the state government has also waived off the requirement of permission for industries to start operations. They just have to submit an undertaking online or to the general manager of our department, saying they will adhere to the laid down standard operation procedure.Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) employ over 24.8 lakh workers in Punjab. But under the Factories Act, 1948, around eight lakh workers have been registered across the state. Only those factories which have more than 10 employees can register under the Factories Act. Such companies also have to provide employees provident fund (EPF) and employees state insurance (ESI) scheme to their employees.More than 62% of the industry in Punjab is concentrated in Ludhiana, Amritsar, Mohali, Jalandhar and Patiala. Out of the 1,58,966 total registered units in these five districts, just 11,504 (6.95%) are operational as of now. Ludhiana is the worst affected district with only 6,453 industrial units out of a total of 95,202 operating with over 2.10 lakh manpower.Though over 11 lakh migrant workers registered with the state government to travel back to their native states, industries department director said many of them are now staying back, which will help industrial operations to resume.Various industries associations in Punjab believe that most cannot start operations at least before June, when the complete chain of raw material, production and supply is expected to become functional. Federation of Punjab small industries association president Badish Kumar Jindal said, Industries which have started operations till now are not going with over 20% production and it would be difficult for them to sustain the momentum for want of raw material and market for the finished products. He said the federation has urged the government to at least pay Rs 5,000 each to labourers for the month of May and provide them food to make them stay back. Otherwise, it would become very difficult to start industrial operations in June and, get the manpower for paddy sowing, he added. Industrial associations agree that the migrant workforce is leaving the state because they are not being paid by the employers, he said.At least 20 lakh migrant workforce is required in the industrial sector in Punjab and around eight lakh for paddy transplantation, he said. Punjab has around 24 lakh migrant labourers, out of which around four lakh have already returned and around 10 lakh are now being sent by the state government through trains and buses, said Jindal.

Provident Fund deposits will now earn more, with the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) recommending a hike in interest rates to 8.65% for 2018-19. About six crore employees and pensioners who subscribe to the scheme will benefit.At its 224th meeting on Thursday chaired by Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar, the EPFOs Central Board of Trustees decided to recommend a rate hike of 10 basis points, according to an official statement.The recommendation will go to the Finance Ministry for the final approval. The increased payout is expected to leave EPFO with a surplus of Rs. 151 crore for the year, in comparison to a surplus of Rs. 586 crore the previous year.The 8.65% rate is higher than what is available on government small savings schemes. This hike returns the rate of interest to the same level as it was in 2016-17, after a decline to a five-year low of 8.55% in 2017-18.ESIC cuts contributionIn another decision that is likely to benefit workers in the election year, the Employees State Insurance Corporations Central Board reduced contribution rates from 6.5% to 5% of monthly wages at its Tuesday meeting. Employees will only have to pay 1%, while the employers share is reduced to 4%.ESIC also decided to fully reimburse state governments for its medical scheme, removing the cap of Rs. 3,000 per person. The monthly income ceiling limit for dependent parents to avail benefits under the scheme was also raised from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 9000.The 8.65% rate is higher than what is available on government small savings schemes

National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) observed its 34th Foundation Day here in Pennagaram by way of a financial literacy awareness programme on Friday.The programme sought to bring on board the public on the Central Governments flagship financial schemes, such as the Prime Ministers Jan Dhan Yojana, Prime Ministers Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana, Prime Ministers Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana besides the various credit-linked schemes of the Government.Presiding over the programme, the Zonal Manager of Indian Bank (Lead Bank) Gopikrishnan, impressed upon the significance of low-cost insurance schemes introduced by the government to bring into social security net, the hitherto uncovered sections of the population.The District Development Manager of NABARD, T.K. Parthasarathy, underlined the need for people in the rural areas to enrol in social security schemes as they have been excluded from these schemes in the past. The insurance schemes protect the life of the poor in the eventuality of accident and death and provided them with a strong social security net, he said. The programme witnessed an overview on the credit-linked subsidy schemes like National Livestock Mission, Solar Energy Mission, Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure etc.Over 200 members of NABARDs SHGs and farmers clubs participated and significant numbers enrolled in the insurance and pension schemes. A booklet titled Relation with Banks was released on the occasion.

Suresh C. Angadi, MP, has urged the Centre to establish a new Employees State Insurance (ESI) hospital in Udyambag area in the city.Mr. Angadi said in a release issued here on Saturday that he met the Union Minister for Labour and Employment Sis Ram Ola and tried to convince him on the need for establishment of a full-fledged ESI hospital in Udyambag, a major industrial area in the city.As a large number of industrial estalishments were coming up in the city, the worker population was also on the rise. Many workers found it inconvenient to go to the existing ESI hospital at the other end of the city, he said.Also, this hospital could not accommodate many patients in its in-patient ward due to lack of sufficient beds.Thousands of workers remained deprived of healthcare through the ESI hospital and the establishment of a hospital in Udyambag would cater to the needs of workers in the city, he added.Mr. Angadi drew attention to the sub-regional office of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) in the city.He said though the centre had sanctioned the office a while ago, the authorities had not taken up follow-up measures to establish the office, he said and urged Mr. Ola to direct officials in this regard.

PM terms budget pragmatic, says will reignite growthNew Delhi, Feb 28, 2015, PTI: 14:32 ISTPrime Minister Narendra Modi today described the budget as "progressive" and "pragmatic" and said it will reignite growth while assuring foreign investors about stable, predictable and fair tax system."Union budget 2015 is a budget with a clear vision. It is a budget that is progressive, positive, practical, pragmatic & prudent," Modi tweeted.The budget will "further reignite our growth engine, signalling the dawn of a prosperous future", he added.He said Finance Minister Arun Jaitley must be congratulated for "this pro-poor, pro-growth, pro-middle class, pro-youth & paradigm shifting budget".Modi said the budget has a distinct focus on farmers, youth, poor and neo-middle class and "delivers on growth, equity and job creation".Contending that the budget is investment friendly, the Prime Minister said it "removes all doubts on tax issues" and "assures investors that we have a stable, predictable and fair tax system."He said Jaitley had laid down goals to be achieved by 2022 which include housing for all, jobs, health, education and total electrification.Referring to black money issue, he said the mention of a new law being introduced "demonstrates our firm commitment to bring back every Rupee of Black Money stashed abroad".Modi also appreciated Jaitley for "doing an excellent job in respecting aspirations of the states and at the same time delivering on national priorities."He said the budget also indicates the government's commitment to ensure that development of eastern and northeastern parts of India gets an impetus and drives future growth.The Prime Minister said "success" of Jan Dhan Yojana is "gladdening" and "Building on that, key schemes are announced that will comprehensively transform lives of the poor."In this context, he referred to new schemes like Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana, Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Vidya Lakshmi Karyakram, saying they mark "a shift from Jan Dhan to Jan Kalyan".He said Atal Innovation Mission and SETU "underline our commitment to enable innovation, entrepreneurship and start-ups to grow & shine in India."

NEW DELHI: The Aadhaar card is now the most widely held identification document in the country with a voluntary enrolment of 92 crore people. It is also perhaps the sole ID for many of its holders, including many families below the poverty line.In comparison, 5.7 crore people have passports, 17 crore people PAN cards, 60 crore voter ID cards, 15 crore ration cards and 17.3 crore driving licences.Aadhaar has helped effect savings of Rs 2,600 crore by eliminating bogus claims in welfare schemes besides engendering greater transparency and consequently reducing corruption, reports from states and Union Territories show.It is also delivering benefits in progarmmes tailored for the poor like MNREGA where 3 crore of 9 crore active workers have Aadhaar-linked bank accounts. One crore wage transactions have been remitted and the process has become more efficient and transparent with 87,000 banking correspondents providing village and neighbourhood-level micro ATM services.If a legal order restricts use of the Aadhaar gateway  the Supreme Court is currently scrutinising it  many sections such as MNREGA workers will be affected. Various pension schemes with over 2.5 crore beneficiaries have some 54 lakh accounts linked to Aadhaar with 64 lakh transactions completed, accounting for Rs 507 crore. The government is keen that the court allow the principle of voluntary use of Aadhaar for a host of services other than LPG, PDS and kerosene. The court has currently restricted Aadhaar to the three schemes.Quick credit and hassle-free withdrawal as there is no need to travel to a bank are significant savings for. MNREGA workers, particularly women who have to forego household responsibilities and daily earnings to travel to a bank in remote areas. In conservative societies, the problem is compounded as women are not able to travel alone and may have to be accompanied by male relative.The PM Jandhan Yojana which permits opening of zero balance accounts without documentation that poor beneficiaries often lack aims at broadening financial inclusion. Over 17 crore accounts have been opened and of these over 7 crore or 41% individuals have presented the UID as proof of identity to access banking services.The Aadhar infrastructure will be vastly under-utilised if it is restricted to just a handful of schemes, making it a waste of public money. Even with a partial application, states have reported large savings, weeding out bogus claimants like benefits drawn in the name of dead persons, or duplicate claims like names existing in other job cards and money taken in the name of an absent person.Aadhar is particularly crucial for BPL families who are the primary beneficiaries of PMJDY and three pensions schemes run by the Centre  Atal Pension Yojana, PM Suraksha Bima Yojana and PM Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana --are linked to UID. The schemes, according to official sources, are intended to provide a wide coverage by way of insurance with small premiums, flagged by the government as a key policy goal.With Rs 12 a year as premium, an insured person is entitled to a coverage of Rs 2 lakh and with an Aadhar linkage, the claims can be directly transferred to bank accounts with middle men being cut out of the picture while transfers become faster. The process cuts down the government's administrative costs as well, making the schemes more economically viable and opening banking to many who have been deprived of the services.The elderly will not be required to visit banks for proof that they exist in order to draw benefits. There are over 1.5 crore pensioners and the Jeevan Praman scheme dispenses with the need for personal appearances using the Aadhar identity and some 3.2 lakh retired persons have used the facility.Online registration for out-patient services and operations of the Employees' Provident Fund Organization have also become an easier task with the Aadhar linkage with PF accounts providing a life-long universal access number allowing access to funds and transactions across locations and. At present, over 87 lakh persons have linked Aadhar to their UAN.

K.S. Eshwarappa, Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council, handing over insurance policy to a beneficiary in Shivamogga on Saturday. Photo: VAIDYAMember of the Rajya Sabha Ayanur Manjunath has called upon the public sector banks and the social organisations to cover all the middle and low-income families under the social security insurance schemes launched by the Union government.Mr. Manjunath was speaking at a meeting organised by the Lead bank here on Saturday to promote social security insurance schemes in the district.The Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) launched by the Union government to provide access to banking services to people from all strata of society had evoked good response. More than 17.5 crore bank accounts had been opened across the country under PMJDY. Following the success of PMJDY, the Union government introduced the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Yojana to provide insurance cover to people from all income groups, he said.Atal Pension Yojana had come as a boon to workers in the unorganised sector, who had been deprived of social security facilities, including pension. It was essential to bring all the bank account-holders under the purview of these schemes. The bank officials should apprise the account-holders on the benefits of these schemes, he said.Leader of Opposition in Legislative Council K.S. Eshwarappa, in his address, said that concerted efforts were needed to realise objectives of the Union government of creating a universal and inclusive social security system in the country. The culture of gifting insurance policies to the near and dear ones on special occasions should be developed, he said.R.K. Siddaramanna, MLC, and J. Jagadeesh, Divisional Manager of Life India Corporation of India, were present. The public sector banks had opened counters at the venue of the meeting for enrolment for the scheme.

NEW DELHI: India's demand for social security cover for its professionals in the United States is back on the discussion table, with the US seeking details of similar universal benefit schemes in India to decide on the course of negotiations for a totalisation pact.The resumption of talks on the pact after a gap of five years signals improvement in India-US ties after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's successful US visit in September last year followed by President Barack Obama's visit to Delhi on Republic Day this year.India has for the first time rolled out a slew of universal pension and social security schemes, which were announced in the budget in February, strengthening India's negotiating position for the bilateral pact. Totalisation pact has been India's key demand in the bilateral talks given that Indian professionals contribute more than $1 billion each year to the US social security through federal taxes without getting any benefits in return.A US government delegation met Indian embassy officials in Washington earlier this month. An Indian team will follow up on the talks with a visit to Washington next month."They sought details of the social security schemes in India to take totalisation pact talks forward. We informed them about the budget announcements but they have sought more information to evaluate whether India's social security schemes are good enough to sign a bilateral pact," said a government official, requesting not to be named.The Modi government has rolled out Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY).Unlike India's fledgling schemes, social security is the largest social welfare programme in the United States, accounting for 37% of the government expenditure and 7% of GDP.India has argued that the pact should not hinge on the schemes running in the country. "Fundamentally, if one is making a social security contribution to the US, there is no reason why one should not be able to avail themselves of their contribution," said an Indian official, adding that the social security in the US discriminates against Indians working there as they end up losing their social security contributions due to discrepancy in visa and social security regime. While work visas are issued for a maximum of six years, eligibility for social security benefits in the US require residence of more than 10 years.The contribution by Indian professionals to the US Social Security is estimated at more than $25 billion over the past decade. Four rounds of talks on totalisation took place till 2010.While India is pushing for a comprehensive totalisation pact to allow all Indian professionals to benefit from social security irrespective of the time of residence, there are suggestions of offering social security to Indian workers who stay in the US for four-five years."A detachment pact covering professionals with a stay of fourfive years is not desirable to us, as there are many who stay for two years. We want nothing less than a comprehensive totalisation agreement," said the official. The matter was also taken up during the trade policy forum meeting in November last year, co-chaired by commerce and industry minister Nirmala Sitharaman and her US counterpart Michael Froman.The US has entered into totalisation pacts with 24 nations. "Both India and the US have entered into similar agreements with countries including Denmark, Belgium, Germany and Canada, and there is no reason why such an agreement cannot be concluded between India and the US," said the official.

Chief Executive Officer of the Yadgir Zilla Panchayat Vikas Suralkar has instructed the officials concerned to complete the process of linking Aadhaar cards with bank accounts of beneficiaries of MGNREGA at the earliest.He was speaking after inaugurating an awareness programme on social security of Centrally- sponsored projects here on Wednesday. Mr. Suralkar said that necessary direction has already been given to the panchayat raj officials to coordinate with the bank officials in this regard.M. Khadri, lead bank manager, said that SCs, STs, and women industrialists would get loans under the Stand-up India scheme.Under the scheme, Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 99 lakh would be given as loan encouraging them to establish industries. Therefore, officials of the departments concerned and also banks should conduct awareness programmes in this regard, he said.He asked the officials to ensure that Centrally-sponsored schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana , Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bhima, and Atal Pension Yojana were implemented effectively.Officers from various banks and departments were present on the occasion.

Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. PTI Photo Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. PTI PhotoBihar BJP President Nityanand Rai criticised the Nitish Kumar government for its failure to spend funds, especially the central funds. Development is hampered in Bihar due to the negligence of the state government which has been unable to spend funds properly especially the Central funds, Rai said.On the one hand the central government has been releasing funds for various development activities, while on the other the state government has not been able to spend it  We will not allow the neglect of central funds, said Rai, who is a Lok Sabha member from Ujiarpur. Referring to the CAG report of 2015-16, he said that the report, which was tabled in the state legislature in March this year, is an eye opener as it says that the state government could not spend a single penny of the 182 developmental schemes and the government had to surrender the funds.It could spend Rs 32000 crore out of Rs 67,000 crore for various schemes, he said adding that the state government surrendered Rs 35,000 crore of the budget. It is completely unjust and cheating the people if the government, that talks about development cannot spend funds. Such a government has no right to remain in power, BJP president said.Stating that Centre had released Rs 94,906 crore for Bihar in the three years since 2015-16 apart from the state governments share in central taxes, BJP leader said. From today, BJP leaders and workers will visit every village of the state (Bihar) to tell the people about the achievements of Narendra Modi government in the past three years. We will also tell people about the failures of the state government. This exercise will continue till June 15, he said.The Narendra Modi government will complete its third year in office on Friday. Rai, who spoke about the schemes and measures launched by the Modi government in the past three years, claimed that Bihar had been hugely benefiited by the Mudra Yojana but refused to provide the numbers of people from Bihar who availed loans under it.Demonetisation, a major achievement of the government, hit black money and benami properties, he said adding that it also provided a slew of social security schemes under Atal Pension Yojana, PM Jivan Jyoti Bima Yojana, PM Suraksha Bima Yojana.Apart from providing LPG connection to poor families under Ujjwala Yojana, the Centre has set the target of electrifying all villages by 2018. In Bihar only 319 villages are yet to be electrified. And this has happened because of Prime Minister Modis resolve in this regard, he added.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App

Union Minister for Power, Coal and New and Renewable Energy Piyush Goyal (left) sharing a lighter moment with State Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani (second right) and Coimbatore Mayor P. Rajkumar (right) at a function held in Coimbatore on Saturday. Photo: S. Siva SaravananUnion Minister of State for Power, Coal and New and Renewable Energy Piyush Goyal on Saturday launched three social security schemes  the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana  aimed at providing insurance cover and pension to people at affordable cost.Addressing the gathering at the Corporation Kalaiarangam in R.S. Puram, the Minister said that the launch of the schemes was one of the important initiatives of the Bharatiya Janata Party government.At affordable cost, people from the lower economic strata of society, those employed in the unorganised sector and working as daily wagers could avail themselves of insurance cover for their family members and themselves at less than Re. 1 a month.Under the Atal Pension Yojana, those above 18 could invest as less as Rs. 42 a month until they are 60 to enjoy pension thereafter. In case of death, the insured would get Rs. 1.75 lakh. These schemes, which were path-breaking, proved that the Prime Minister wanted to take along the have-nots on the path of development.In Coimbatore, thus far 20 lakh people had been insured, he added.State Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani, Coimbatore Mayor P. Rajkumar, and Collector Archana Patnaik among others were present.

More than eight crore workers contributing towards Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) may soon be eligible to receive medical treatment from Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospitals after their retirement.The EPFOs central board of trustees will meet on Thursday to consider passing on medical benefits under ESIC to pensioners under Employees Pension Scheme linked to EPF accounts.It has been requested to extend the proposed scheme of ESIC on medical benefits to the pensioners under Employees Pension Scheme (EPS) of the EPFO also. The Scheme of medical benefits for EPS 1995 provisions as devised by ESIC will be implemented, according to the agenda of the CBT meeting, which will be chaired by labour minister Bandaru Dattaterya on Thursday.1,400 dispensariesThe ESIC has a network of over 1,400 dispensaries and over 150 hospitals across the country which will be accessible to EPF pensioners once the plan is finalised.EPFOs Central Provident Fund Commissioner V.P. Joy held a meeting with ESIC Director General Deepak Kumar recently to discuss the proposal.The broad contours of the proposal will be discussed in the CBT meeting which has employers and employees representatives.Workers drawing salary up to Rs. 15,000 per month are entitled to medical benefits for treatment during incidences of sickness, maternity, disability and death due to injury during work.The ESI Act applies to factories with 10 or more workers and it is also applicable to shops, hotels, restaurants, cinemas and road transport undertakings.While 4.75% of a workers salary goes towards ESI as employers contribution, 1.75% of the income goes as the employees share.Till March 2016, 2.13 crore insured persons were covered under the Insurance Corporations Act.

Jorhat, June 15: Retrenched workers under BSNL Casual and Contract Workers Federation, Jorhat secondary switching area comprising Jorhat, Golaghat and Sivasagar districts, have threatened to stop all BSNL operations in the three districts if they are not taken back to work within this month. The workers lost their jobs after the BSNL cancelled the contracts. Contracts were cancelled after the workers agitated in February 2011 which came close on the heels of parliamentary standing committees queries on labour on whether the management was flouting the Labour Act regarding minimum wages to these workers. District secretary Kunja Mohan Das alleged that 285 workers had been working for the past several years now in important sectors such as manning telephone exchanges, maintenance, operation of generators, entry works in administrative offices, for anything between Rs 500 and Rs 2,500 which is below the minimum wages fixed by the government for labourers. They had been given neither social security by BSNL contractors like employees provident fund nor employees state insurance according to regulations. In response to the parliamentary standing committees query, the chief general manager telecommunications, Assam Telecom Circle, issued a notice on December 21, 2010, to all the secondary switching area heads, senior GMs and GMs, Assam Telecom Circle, regarding the complaints and directed them to observe state labour laws and its provisions relating to minimum wages and also to indemnify Assam Telecom Circle, BSNL from any dispute arising between the contractor and its employees and directing them to issue similar directives to all contractors dealt by them. When the BSNL contractors failed to comply with this directive, the Federation launched an agitation in February following which the contracts were cancelled and the workers retrenched. In November 5, 2008, Subhash Chand, AGM (Admin) BSNL corporate office, New Delhi, had issued an order to all heads of telecom circles, all heads of district maintenance region and all heads of project circles and other administrative units of BSNL to ensure that whenever work is outsourced to contractors, all provisions of the labour legislations should be strictly adhered to by the contractors. Assistant general manager, (Admin) Jorhat Telecom Circle, M.N. Pegu, admitted that there had been omissions on their part and they were trying to rectify matters by floating fresh tenders which would take into cognisance the minimum wages of the labourers and other social security measures. In total, we will float five tenders, one of which will be opened on June 29, one is awaiting the approval of the GM, Jorhat Telecom Circle, and two others are being prepared, Pegu said.

A freedom fighter, a crusader for social justice, a champion of the depressed classes, an outstanding parliamentarian, an able administrator and an exceptionally gifted orator  Babu Jagjivan Ram was indeed a unique personality in independent Indias political landscape. He symbolised the dawn of a new era of equality and empowerment of the Dalits. Born in the small village of Chandwa in Bhojpur district on April 5, 1908, he was a victim of caste-based discrimination in school. He protested when a separate pitcher was designated for him in the school and succeeded in getting it removed. He went on to study at the prestigious Banaras Hindu University and graduated from Kolkata University.As a graduate in his mid-20s, Babuji could have taken up a government job and made use of the many benefits that came along with such a position. Or he could have joined the revolutionaries. But he did not opt for either and instead followed the Gandhian path of ahimsa and satyagraha. He founded the Khetihar Mazdoor Sabha to help agricultural labour and the All India Depressed Classes League to help the depressed classes participate in the freedom movement. He believed that Dalit leaders should fight for not only reforms but also political representation. Inspired by Gandhijis ideals, he courted arrest on December 10, 1940. He was arrested again on August 19, 1942, for participating in the Quit India Movement.Babuji had a distinguished political career that lasted for over five decades. In 1936, he stood as a candidate of the Depressed Classes League and was elected unopposed to the Bihar legislative assembly. When the Congress government was formed in 1937, Babuji was appointed parliamentary secretary in the ministry of education and development. He had the unique distinction of serving as a member of the central legislature for 40 continuous years. He was also the longest-serving minister in the history of Parliament. Till his last breath, Babuji was a sitting member of the Lok Sabha; it was his eighth term. As a labour minister, he laid the foundations for social security by enacting the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948, and the Employees Provident Fund Act, 1952. As food and agriculture minister, Babuji heralded the Green Revolution. He also organised the public distribution system to ensure that foodgrain are made available to the needy at reasonable prices.The historic victory of India in the 1971 war bears testimony to Babujis confidence, patience and abilities as Indias defence minister. Its worth recalling that in 1971, when the armed forces were fighting for the liberation of Bangladesh, a lot of defence material was procured at short notice. In 1972, after the victory, when more than 90,000 Pakistani soldiers were sent to Indian cantonments and looked after for a year, massive amounts of tentage, clothing and foodgrains were procured. Undoubtedly, it was due to Babujis integrity, commitment and organisational skills that the exercise was implemented smoothly. I had the privilege of being a Cabinet colleague of Babuji for a decade in 1967. He had a lot of affection for me and I respected him greatly. His interventions in Cabinet meetings were generally brief but always effective. On his 105th birthday today, lets recall Babujis valuable services to the nation and pay homage to this great personality.Karan Singh is a Rajya Sabha memberThe views expressed by the author are personal

COIMBATORE: The Union minster of state for power, coal and new and renewable energy, Piyush Goyal on Saturday inaugurated three insurance schemes at the Corporation Kalaiarangam at 6pm. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi was inaugurating the schemes in Kolkata, the schemes were being simultaneously launched at 115 locations across the country on Saturday evening.The schemes- Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Prdahan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana were launched on Saturday. "The schemes have been launched after the success of Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana that saw 15crore accounts being opened by the poor and needy.The next step is to provide social security," said Narendra Modi at the function in Kolkata which was aired at the inauguration programme of the schemes in Coimbatore.Modi said that the schemes were being launched on Rabindranath Tagore's birth anniversary, and this was the reason why they chose Kolkata as the location for the launch.Piyush Goyal, who formally inaugurated the schemes in Coimbatore explained them to the public. He said, "These schemes will provide social security to the poor and needy. While we have opened bank accounts for them, they are also entitled to a secure life."The PM Surasksha Bima Yojana secures the family of a person in case of accidental death or permanent disability due to the accident. The scheme insures the person with 2lakh against 1 per month. In PM Jeevan Jyothi Yojana, the person is insured for 2lakh, and the family is secured after the death of the policy holder. "The death can be due to any reason, and the policy will secure the family," said Goyal.The third scheme, Atal Pension Yojana, was the most important according to Piyush Goyal as it was meant for securing the lives of senior citizens. He said, "A person from the age of 18 can deposit 42 or 210 per month.After the age of 60, he/she will get 1,000 or 5,000 per month as pension depending on the amount he/she deposited." In case of the policy holder's death, the family would get 1.7lakh (for 42 per month premium) or 5lakh (for 210 per month premium), Goyal said.

The COVID-19 pandemic and the prolonged national lockdown have brought the Indian economy to a standstill. In tackling the crisis, the Centre has not done much to enable States to benefit from the much-touted benefits of cooperative federalism. States are struggling to cope with the unprecedented existential challenges they face. The Centre has relentlessly undermined the immediate necessity for making appropriate financial provisions to enable States to meet the challenge. Most States have already shared their concerns on the inadequate fiscal support from the Centre. Where has Indias money gone? What will happen with the unspent money in the Prime Ministers Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund?Too modest a packageAt the end of March, the Centre had announced a stimulus package of 1.7-lakh crore, out of which about 1.2-lakh crore was the existing entitlement. It was too modest considering the severity of the COVID-19 crisis. After about a month and a half, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on May 12, announced a package of 20-lakh crore without mentioning anything specific for stranded migrant workers and for re-structuring micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Industry has been demanding a package to the tune of 7% to 8% of Indias GDP of over $2.8 trillion, nothing unusual given that similar packages have been announced by other countries to mitigate the damage done to their economies. However, keeping the governments silence in mind, India Inc. revised its demand for a package to as low as 3% of the GDP. So, a package of the size of almost 10% of the GDP was offered like a masterstroke but without coming clear on the source of funding and oversight provision. The buck was passed to the Finance Minister and, surprisingly, no call was taken on the lockdown.Coronavirus package | Will migrant workers benefit from the Centres measures?The presentation by the Finance Minister, which was more a five-episode package for television, has proved to be a damp squib. There was only word play with nothing for migrant workers, farmers, daily wage earners and the poor facing destitution. On MSMEs, the announcements offer no major concessions; soft loan, PF and tax provisions are shrewd. The redefinition of MSMEs has been long-pending and cannot be called a reform. There is nothing for the States to look forward to that can serve the immediate purpose.Since MSMEs have been the hardest hit, being the main employers of industrial workers, their plight is grim. It is small businesses that give traction to entrepreneurial activities in the unorganised sector where migrants from rural India mostly work. Sadly, the process of economic revival has not even commenced and industry is in dire straits. The package that has been announced is too late and too flawed. Ideally, after the first round of an insufficient package, the government should have begun consultations with parliamentarians, Opposition parties and industry representatives to prepare a well-thought-out relief package to re-start the economy. Alas, this did not happen. States which have been at the forefront of the war against COVID-19 have not been given the required funds to help them cope with the public health emergency and support the high influx of returning migrant labourers from industrial locations.Indias great middle class, which is also suffering, has found no solace either; nor is it likely that they will get anything substantial from this package. A large number of workers in the organised sector are facing heavy pay cuts, job losses, a sharp fall in income, and uncertainty. Farmers are finding it difficult to get the minimum support price for their produce; a majority of them are in debt and face many obstacles.Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan | First tranche | Second tranche | Third tranche | Fourth tranche | Fifth tranchePlight of the migrant workersThe first national lockdown was announced in the most dramatic manner by the Prime Minister late in the evening and without adequate notice. This created panic among migrants who were suddenly left without any income security. A vast majority of them lost their livelihoods and were threatened more by the prospect of death by starvation than by the virus. And they have walked thousands of kilometres to go back home to States such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh  because, for them, a home-coming was the last resort to stay alive. Instead of action by the government, the helping hands seem to be from the Opposition, charitable individuals and social organisations. Such painful displacement could have been avoided by offering industry a timely financial package. Now India faces the loss of lives and livelihoods against the backdrop of the ruling dispensations apathy towards the poor and the disadvantaged.On May 1, some Shramik Express trains were flagged off from certain destinations to take back migrant workers to their home States, but there was another shock  the charges levied by the Indian Railways. How can this be justified in a situation such as this? What is the meaning of being a citizen of this country? On May 4, the president of the Indian National Congress made an assurance that the Congress would bear the cost of travel for poor migrants. Sensing the imminent political loss on this issue, the ruling BJP issued a statement that the Railways would cover 85% of the cost with the State concerned covering the remainder. It is the BJP that is answering queries, when it should be the Government of India that should take up a leadership role in a crisis situation.Full coverage | Lockdown displaces lakhs of migrantsIt was expected that the government would accord priority to cutting out wasteful expenditure on projects such as the Central Vista project and the bullet train project and, instead, manage the available resources of the Reserve Bank of India, the Employees State Insurance Corporation, the Employees Provident Fund Organisation and the PM CARES Fund to help the poor. This was not to be. The central bank should have been busy with restoring the health of the financial sector and also concerned itself with considering the suggestions of former RBI Governors Raghuram Rajan and C. Rangarajan on adopting an altruistic approach in place of the one driven merely by fiscal and inflationary concerns.Stimulus that is delayed and flawed is tantamount to justice denied. Whatever the false compliments India may receive for tackling the pandemic, the fact remains that the country is at a crossroads as a result of late and wrong decisions. The government should follow a single policy, namely people first. The matters of lives and livelihoods should not be pitted against each other. Both issues have to be taken care of simultaneously. The nation is passing through a grave crisis in which a state of denial can be counterproductive. Indias economy is no longer capable of absorbing the shocks from monumental blunders already committed. The country must be rescued from this terrible mess. Mere rhetoric will not help.Yashwant Sinha is Indias former Minister of Finance (1998-2002) and Minister of External Affairs (2002-2004). Atul K. Thakur is a Delhi-based policy professional and columnist

The Haryana government has decided to link all registered sites and organisations having contractual labour with Haryana Udyam Memorandum (HUM) in the next six months. It will ensure complete benefits of Employees State Insurance and Employees Provident Fund to the workers.The States Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of Labour and Employment Department, said this while presiding over the second meeting of the State Advisory Contract Labour Board in Gurugram on Thursday.It was decided in this meeting that in the coming months, it will be ensured that the contractual labour holding organisations have a HUM number. Under this, the registration of contractors and workers is being done with their Aadhaar card number. The Labour Department will confirm that every such organisation is registered and after February 1, 2021, if any contractor or organisation is not found registered, then strict action will be taken against it.It was informed at the meeting that so far during this year, 427 institutes have obtained their certificates by registering themselves under The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 in the State. Similarly, 1,882 contractors and organisations have obtained licences under this Act. It was also informed that under the Act, the primary employer or industry receives a certificate after registering itself by providing information about the empanelled contractors working with them to the State government. Thereafter, all the impanelled contractors apply under the Act and obtain a licence. The Act covers units or organisations with 50 or more workers.The second important agenda in todays meeting was to allow contractual labour in the units related to rubber industry. In this case, it was decided to invite suggestions from all industrial associations and trade unions.

Prime Minister Modi was interacting with beneficiaries of various social security schemesPrime Minister Narendra Modi today said social security cover has now been extended to around 50 crore people in the country, an increase of about 10 times since 2014."The social security schemes of the Government of India help cope with the uncertainties of life," PM Modi said.The Prime Minister was interacting with beneficiaries of various social security schemes of the government through video conferencing. He said beneficiaries under various social security schemes stood at about 5 crore in 2014, which has now increased to 50 crore.Referring to the financial inclusion programme Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, he said the emphasis was on three aspects -- opening the doors of the banks for the poor, or banking the unbanked; access to capital for small business and budding entrepreneurs, or funding the unfunded; and a social security cover for the poor and vulnerable, thus financially securing the unsecured.About 28 crore new bank accounts have been opened under the Jan Dhan scheme."I am particularly happy that more women have bank accounts. It is important for women to be in the financial mainstream," he said. The government is promoting schemes like Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.There are about 1 crore subscribers of the assured minimum pension scheme Atal Pension Yojana.The government is also promoting Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana for citizens aged 60 years and above. About 3 lakh people have so far benefited from the scheme.

The Government is taking steps to bring in more people into the social security coverage provided by Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC).Under the ESI the employer is responsible for the coverage of even employees of contractors on the site. Further, the cashless medical treatment is being provided to help the poor workers. The ESIC has taken a number of steps to ensure greater compliance, Director of ESIC Visakhapatnam Sub Regional Office Chinmay Bose said at an interactive session with Regional Provident Fund Commissioner and Director ESIC organised by the CII Vizag Zone here on Tuesday.Out of the 5,725 employers in the district 3,000 have not paid their ESIC dues in time, as per the figures for June, he said and exhorted the employers to clear their dues immediately. He listed out the steps being taken by his organisation. Regional Commissioner Visakhapatnam EPFO Ajeet Kumar said that the penalty for delayed payment of PF dues was 49 per cent and there was no provision to give any concession on that, while urging the employers to ensure that they remit their dues in time.Considering the issues being faced by the international workers in India the PF laws have been amended, he said and clarified on the issues of pension and withdrawal of PF. He cleared the doubts of the members of the audience about various aspects of PF rules. Earlier, vice chairman of CII Vizag Zone and managing director Sravan Shipping Services P Ltd G Sambasiva Rao introduced the speakers. K Ganeshan of the CII and a large number of industrialists and employees attended.

: Conservancy workers hired on contract basis staged a dharna at the main entrance of Tirunelveli Railway Junction on Tuesday to highlight their demands.The protestors said their colleague one Arumugam suffered asphyxiation recently when he was working at Tirunelveli Railway Junction under hostile conditions without any safety gear. After being admitted to the hospital, Arumugam died. Since this avoidable death happened due to the unsafe working conditions, the contract conservancy workers should be given all safety gears.Moreover, adequate compensation should be given to the family of Arumugam.The conservancy workers should not be compelled to remove human waste from the rail track with their hands. Modern gadgets should be given to the conservancy workers for this purpose.Salary should be given on the 5th day of every month and welfare measures such as Employees State Insurance Scheme and Employees Provident Fund should be extended to them also, the protestors said. The conservancy workers should not be compelled to remove human waste from rail track with their hands

New Delhi, May 31, 2015, (PTI): 14:56 ISTCompleting one year in office, Prime Minister Narendra Modi today said the 'manthan' (debate) about the performance of his government is good for democracy as it would help him know what was "lacking".During his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' radio programme, he said the entire nation has conducted analysis of the first year of his government and there has been "criticism" even while "many gave distinction to us"."In a democracy, this 'manthan' (debate) is necessary. Views, for and against, are important. It is very essential to know what was lacking. The good things have their own benefits," he said.Contending that he feels for the poor, he specially mentioned three social security schemes -- PM Insurance Scheme, the Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Scheme, for the benefit of the downtrodden people.He said these schemes had become a hit within 20 days as 8.52 crore people had enrolled for them. "I feel for the poor These schemes are a very important step for social security These will ensure that the poor are not dependent on anybody and are empowered," Modi said."I want to create an army from among the poor to fight poverty and defeat it so that the burden of poverty that the nation is carrying for years is removed. For ridding the nation of poverty, we will continue to make efforts and succeed," he said.Talking about the 'Kisan TV channel' launched recently, the Prime Minister said it will help the farmers as well as fishermen to learn the best practices and improve productivity.In this context, he emphasised the need for better nurturing of milk-bearing animals to improve production as he observed that India was far behind in terms of milk production per animal. He pressed for use of scientific technology in this regard.

NEW DELHI: The subscriber base of Atal Pension Yojana (APY), a guaranteed pension scheme for unorganised sector, is expected to increase to 1 crore by March next year, Finance Ministry said today."APY is not only a flagship scheme of the government, it is an important instrument for inclusion...within three years, the scheme has been able to mobilise nearly 69 lakh accounts," Financial Services Secretary Rajiv Kumar said in a video message to an event organised by PFRDA here.Given the huge population, he said, there is a long way to go as the pension coverage is very low in the country."When the enrolment under PMJJY (Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana) and PMSBY (Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana) can reach to the level of 13 crore, I see no reason for APY to lag behind. We have fixed a target of 1 crore this year to be achieved by March 31," he said.Under APY, the monthly pension would be available to the subscriber, and after him to his spouse and after their death, the pension corpus, as accumulated at the age 60 of the subscriber, would be returned to the nominee of the subscriber.Pitching for increasing the pace of Aadhaar seeding, Kumar said, efforts have to be made to push this beyond the current level of 40 per cent.The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) is also offering APY by Aadhaar in a completely digital manner, he said.Talking about digital initiative, PFRDA Chairman Hemant Contractor said the pension regulator has developed the process to offer APY enrolment through eNPS (national pension system) platform for wider reach.The customers of the bank can visit eNPS portal and submit Aadhaar or bank name and savings bank account number to join the scheme.Under this channel a complete end-to-end digital environment for subscription is enabled without submission of physical form at the convenience of the customer without visiting bank or post office.Till now, APY was available for subscription through banks, business correspondents and through Internet banking.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the NDA government will successfully implement the one rank one pension (OROP) scheme and put an end to previous governments inaction on the policy for the past 40 years.To our brave army personnel and ex-servicemen... For 40 years the question of one rank one pension has been persisting. Not much has happened so far. I assure you that this government and I repeat, this government, will give the solution to one rank one pension, Modi said in his Mann Ki Baat radio program.Modi, however, sought time to resolve the complexities involved in the implementation of the policy.The OROP scheme is aimed at ensuring that all retired soldiers, who have the same rank and the length of service receive the same amount of pension, irrespective of their date of retirement. Under the existing policy, soldiers who retired before 2006 receive less pension than those who retired later.Modi said OROP was "a complex issue, a vexed issue. You have been patient for 40 years. Give me some time to address it." He said various departments were working to resolve the complexities as "it is not a simple matter" and added that "running commentary" through the media on the details of the progress will not help.The Prime Minister said the entire country has debated on the positives and negatives of the completion of one year of the BJP-led NDA rule."It is important to known what have been the drawbacks," he said, adding that many sections have also praised his government's achievements in the past 12 months.The Prime Minister also spoke of the recent launch of three social major security schemes for the poor, saying that over 8.5 crore people have joined the schemes within 20 days of their launch. The schemes are Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.On the recently-launched DD Kisan channel, Modi said it gave him a "lot of joy".Modi said: "Kisan TV channel is a channel where both the teacher and the student are farmers."He further spoke on the searing heat wave that has killed more than 2,000 people till now.I urge you all to take care of yourselves in this heat. At the same take care of the birds & animals around you as well, Modi said.He congratulated students who passed the Central Board of Second Education (CBSE) examinations and said success and failure were a part of life."Success and failure are a part of life. We can learn a lot from failure also," he added.(With agency inputs)Read: 'One rank one pension' overhaul delayed as paramilitary forces fear demoralisation'One-rank, one-pension' to be implemented soon, says Parrikar

Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has favoured integration of bank accounts opened by the poor under Jan Dhan Yojana, Aadhaar details and Mobile numbers (JAM) of individual beneficiaries for effective implementation of the welfare schemes covering the last mile. Once such integration is achieved, it would help the State and Central governments deliver the schemes at the doorstep of the common man. The move would go a long way in significantly improving savings and help banks perform better. The Chief Minister cited the example of a pilot project relating to disbursal of pensions in Krishna district where more than half the beneficiaries preferred keeping the amount in their savings accounts.He was speaking at a meeting organised in connection with the launch of the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and other schemes here on Saturday in the presence of Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar. Mr. Naidu said the three social security schemes  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana - launched across the country were aimed at taking the fruits of economic reforms to the common man.Though several programmes including Garibi Hatao and housing for poor were launched in the past, they did not meet the aspirations of the poor. The Central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is trying to instil confidence in the poor by launching schemes aimed at providing insurance coverage for them, he said.Mr. Parrikar said the launch of the three schemes within a year of coming to power marked yet another milestone reflecting the commitment of the BJP-led NDA government form the welfare of the poor.The three schemes form a trident, a trishul, providing social security cover to the common man, he said. Since the schemes had been formally launched on Saturday, it was for the banks to take them to the last person who really needed insurance. In India, insurance is taken by the persons who dont need it, he said. The Chief Minister and the Union Minister later gave away registration certificates and passbooks to beneficiaries.The move will go a long way in improving savings and help banks perform better, CM says

NEW DELHI: The government is looking to replicate the success of the Jan Dhan Yojana with an ambitious social security scheme, which aims to protect the old in their sunset years and provide life and accident covers to the poor to deal with vulnerabilities."We want to move in the direction of universal social security in which every citizen has insurance and subscribes to a pension plan. The idea is that we should prepare the society for time when a lot of people grow old and the burden should not be on the government. At the same time, people will benefit from their savings. Insurance penetration and density are very low in India now," financial services secretary Hasmukh Adhia told TOI in an interview.Insurance penetration, measured by premium as percentage of GDP, was only 3.9% in 2013, compared to the global average of 6.3%. Similarly, density, measured by premium per capita, was $52, while the world average was $651. Only six crore people have subscribed to pension schemes, which include one crore government employees.This has prompted the government to launch a bold attempt to cover as many households as possible through an easy to enrol mechanism that links the Jan Dhan account holders with Aadhaar.Under the Atal Pension Yojana, which will offer a fixed pension of Rs 1,000-5,000 per month, the government is making a tactical shift from a defined contribution plan as it found that those subscribing to the scheme wanted to know the benefit at the time of retirement. To encourage people to opt for the scheme, the government is offering a guaranteed return of 8%, in addition to bearing a part of the contribution  50% of the premium with an annual ceiling of Rs 1,000  for five years for those joining before December 31.Similarly, we are offering life insurance under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana at Rs 330 a year, which works out less than Re 1 a day. The Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana offers a Rs 2 lakh cover for accidental death and permanent disability, and Rs 1 lakh for partial disability and the premium is just Rs 12 a year."The focus is on a simple products that are easy to subscribe and simple to administer. All three products are linked to the bank account so they are easy to subscribe to. What we need is mass marketing to popularise the scheme," Adhia said.Financial inclusion and income security are key policy planks of the Narendra Modi government as it looks to accelerate growth and ensure that it does not ignore the poor. As part of the plan, the government is also looking at using bank accounts to transfer subsidies to targeted groups.The low-profile bureaucrat also said that the success of the social security plan will also help garner deposits in the Jan Dhan accounts, where 66% have zero balance. So far, the 12.5 crore accounts have managed to mop up deposits of Rs 10,500 crore, which were earlier out of the banking system.Adhia, however, said there are banks which have managed to get 65% of the account holders to maintain deposits. "It shows the possibility for other banks to mobilise savings... As and when the direct benefit transfer network expands and state governments also start transferring funds, the level of deposits will go up significantly."

The response to last years Economic Survey was overwhelming, humbling, and, of course, burdening. According to behavioural economics, humans place greater welfare weights on avoiding loss than experiencing equivalent gain. If true, the response to last years Survey has created a heightened performance anxiety of falling short relative to higher expectations.The other challenge doing this years Survey, the fourth of the current team and the last in the term of this government, is avoiding the risk of jadedness. How can the Survey consistently maintain a freshness of approach, rigour of analysis, relevance of material, and novelty of ideas?A rich economyLuckily, to the rescue comes the Indian economy with its infinite richness and complexity, throwing up limitless opportunities for investigation. Luckily too, economic policy over the past four years has been a crucible for many policy experiments that cry out for understanding and analysis. Thankfully too, colleagues across government have been so generous with sharing data, which has allowed ideas to be pursued so that new facts, evidence, and ideas can find utterance.In response to popular demand, we have reverted this year to the tradition of bringing out Volumes 1 and 2 at the same time. Volume 1 contains the analytical overview and more research-cum-analytical material. Volume 2 provides the more descriptive review of the current fiscal year, encompassing all the major sectors of the economy.Without consciously pursuing an overarching theme, a large part of Volume 1 focuses on what are perhaps more long-term challenges. So, in addition to the overview and chapters of contemporary relevance such as the Goods and Services Tax (GST), the investment-saving slowdown, and fiscal federalism and accountability, there are five chapters devoted to challenges of long-term economic convergence, gender inequality, climate change and agriculture, delays in the appeals and judicial process, and science and technology.As in last years Survey, Big Data has been mined to shed light on the economy, and, for the Surveys authors, there have been some truly wow moments of epiphanic understanding. For example, the implementation of the GST combined with the availability of detailed new data from the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) has allowed a whole new perspective to be gained into the Indian economy  its external and internal trade in the aggregate and State-wise, the size and distribution of the tax net, and levels of formality and informality. Similarly, spatially granular data on temperature and climate have been used to analyse the potential impact of climate change. Household-level data from the various Demographic and Health Surveys and Indias National Family Health Survey have underpinned the analysis of gender issues.The colour of this years survey cover was chosen as a symbol of support for the growing movement to end violence against women, which spans continents. Addressing the deep societal meta-preference in favour of sons, and empowering women with education, and reproductive and economic agency are critical challenges for the Indian economy addressed in Chapter 7.Increasingly, a number of universities are adopting the Survey as a pedagogical tool for courses on the Indian economy. Inspired by that, my team and I conducted a full-fledged Massive Open Online Course for students and teachers all across India with the help of the Ministry of Human Resource Development. Hopefully, those traditions can be built upon going forward even after these volumes.Questions discussedIn addition to the entirely new perspective on the economy that the GST has provided, some of the many questions this Survey discusses are: Can we expect the current investment slowdown to reverse quickly based on understanding other countries experience? Do second and third tiers of government collect the direct taxes that they are empowered to, and if not, what does that signify? On gender, why should we focus on the sex ratio of the last child? Under what conditions, to what extent, and where will the agricultural impact of climate change be most felt? Will there be a stall in Indias four decades long, dynamic process of economic convergence? Should the government and judiciary agree to a Cooperative Separation of Powers like the Centre and States do in the form of cooperative federalism to improve the conditions of doing business? Should there be a number of science and technology missions to propel India to the ranks of the worlds top knowledge producers?An excerpt from the preface of the Economic Survey 2017-18

Employees of PAPSCO stage a sit-in protest in front of the head office of the PAPSCO at Thattanchavadi in Puducherry on Thursday. Photo: S.S. KumarWorkers of the Puducherry Agro Products, Food and Civil Supplies Corporation (PAPSCO), a Puducherry government undertaking, on Thursday abstained from work and staged a dharna in front of the main office demanding salary pending for the last six months.D. Prakash, president of PAPSCO Employees Union, said their demands included regularisation of daily rated workers, extension of benefits such as Employees Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance scheme to them and immediate disbursal of pending salary.Mr. Prakash said that a chunk of 1,090 workers including voucher based and daily rated workers had not been paid salary since October.A section of employees who demanded the management to disburse salary were transferred to outlying regions of Karaikal and Mahe.He claimed that the government had not regularised even a single employee in the undertaking in the last 13 years. The management was violating all labour laws and even PF and ESI were not credited to the respective accounts.We will not rest till the government disburses pending salary to all the workers, he said.Attendance in fair price shops, petrol bunks, liquor shops and vegetable outlets run by PAPSCO in various parts of the city were minimal due to the protest by employees.

: The year 2015 witnessed hectic activity in the banking sector in the State with a majority of banks looking for a share in the cake. Chairmen and Managing Directors of different banks descended on the State, more particularly Vijayawada, to announce new branches and business plans.The banks, more particularly public sector banks (PSBs), expanded their business operations and launched new zonal and regional offices in the State. The rural branches rose to 2,603 (as on September 30) compared to 2,354 in corresponding period last year.As many as 139 new branches were added to the banking network in the State. Of this, 52 were in urban and 10 in metro areas. Remaining new branches were in rural areas. The banks fared well with regards to deposit mobilisation compared to previous year, the non-performing Assets (NPAs) have also increased.The banks have opened as many as 71,31,425 accounts under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) with deposits of more than Rs. 626 crore. Of these, 40,97,123 accounts were opened in rural areas providing universal access to banking facilities starting with the basic savings bank account.The Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) were another three schemes that accelerated banking activity in the State. The banks registered 60,84,632 enrolments under PNSBY, 14,00,862 under PMJJBY, and 42,353 under APY.The deposits and advances were Rs. 2,05,815 crore and Rs. 2,15,797 crore respectively. The credit deposit ratio stood at 07.04 per cent, which was over and above Reserve Bank of India (RBI) norm of 60 per cent.The banks could also achieve 7237 per cent of priority sector advances. Of this, 42.36 per cent was agricultural advances. Again, it is above the RBI norm of 18 per cent for agriculture sector.The banks registered Rs. 14,808 crore Non-Performing Assets (NPAs), while the outstanding loans are Rs. 2,56,285 crore.The NPAs relating to agriculture sector stood at Rs. 5454 crore, while MSME sector was Rs. 2477 crore. Other priority sector NPAs were Rs. 1001 crore. Similarly, the NPAs of non-priority sector was Rs. 4294 crore.The outstanding amount of farm credit given to 1.04 crore accounts is Rs.88,277 crore in the State. Of this, 30.22 lakh accounts were overdue and the total balance over due in these accounts is Rs. 23,480 crore.As many as 7,98,590 accounts turned into NPAs, which amounts to Rs. 5307 crore. The total outstanding agricultural advances, including agriculture infrastructure, ancillary activities, is Rs. 91,415 crore. And, the total NPAs of agricultural advances are Rs. 5454 crore.Likewise, the outstanding amount in MSME sector is Rs. 38,034 crore while the NPAs are 2477 crore.The outstanding loans given to Self-Help Groups (SHGs) is Rs. 14,695 crore, the NPAs are Rs.828 crore. The banks gave loans to 8,01,429 SHG accounts, and of this, 62,773 are found to be NPA accounts. The NPAs of SHGs was Rs.880 crore in corresponding period last year.The NPAs relating to education loans was Rs. 203 crore last year, and it touched Rs. 204 crore.The outstanding housing loans were Rs. 17,986 crore. Of this, Rs. 550 crore turned into NPAs. The outstanding housing lonas were Rs. 15,572 crore last year and the NPAs were Rs. 468 crore.Deposit mobilisation registered an increase, but on the flip side, NPAs shot up

Tailors take out rally, seek NPS Lite schemeMarch 02, 2016, Madikeri/Chikkamagaluru, DHNS 23:33 ISTThe members of Karnataka State Tailors Association staged a protest in Madikeri on Tuesday and urged the government to set up a PF fund for tailors.The protesters took out a rally from Chowdeshwari Temple premises to the DCs office and submitted a memorandum to the district administration.Speaking on the occasion, association President B N Manjunath said their demands have not been fulfilled though peaceful protests are being held from the last 15 years.He urged the Union and the State governments to continue the pension and financial assistance to the tailors ages between 40 and 60 years. Financial assistance for marriage and maternity allowance should be given for the women tailors. Scholarships should be provided to the children of tailors, he added.The associations district General Secretary B S Anand, district Vice President K S Mamata and others were present.Meanwhile, the members of the association took out a rally from Old taluk office to DCs office premises in Chikkamagaluru.They displayed placards demanding National Pension Scheme Lite Swavalamban Scheme for tailors.The protesters urged the government not to transfer the members, aged 18 and 40 years to Atal Pension Yojana from NPS Swavalamban Lite Scheme.The superannuation am-ount in the NPS should be specified by the government. They also sought benefits of Rastriya Swasthya Bima Yojana and Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana for labourers in unorganised sector. Loans should also be provided to tailors at a lower rate of interest. A compensation of Rs 2.50 lakh should be given to the family members in case of accidental death, they demanded.The associations State Committee member K Manjunath, district committee President Ashok Shetty and general Secretary Syed Rehman were present.

VARANASI: Union urban development minister Venkaiah Naidu made it clear that funds would be made available only if progress is made in development projects. Taking note of delay in implementation of projects, he said that Centre would finance only those projects in which 50% work is completed.Naidu was here on Saturday to launch social security schemes like Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY).Before launching the schemes, he held a meeting with officials to review the progress of various projects under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM. He asked officials to expedite the pace of work if they wanted central funds.He said that Centre has planned to invest Rs 18,000 crores for development of Varanasi. Naidu also went to BJP's Gulab Bagh office and addressed party workers. Later, he launched the social security schemes at Nagari Natak Mandali, Kabirchaura.

Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Ram Vilas Paswan, addressing the media on one year of NDA government, in New Delhi on Monday. (Source: PTI Photo)The Centre has decided to raise Rs 6,000 crore to provide interest-free loans to farmers so that they do not have to go to moneylenders and fall into debt traps, Union Minister Ramvilas Paswan on Thursday said.Under the proposed farm loan disbursal mechanism, the farmers will get loan without paying interest which will be borne by the central government, the Union Food and Consumer Affairs Minister said here.Paswan was addressing a press conference to showcase the NDA governments achievements in its one year in office.Defending the controversial Land Acquisition Bill, he said the proposed legislation was a boon for the people.The landowners and the people at large stood to gain from the bill as those selling the land will get payment four times more than its market value and the land will be put to use for setting up industrial units for generating employment, he said.On absence of a consent clause in the bill, he said it was not a new thing as the bill passed during the UPA rule too did not have such a provision.Rubbishing the allegation of the Narendra Modi-government being anti-poor and pro-corporate, he said pro-poor schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Jan Dhan Yojana, Mudra Bank and Atal Pension Yojana were launched for the poor people of the country.The prices of essential goods like rice, wheat and sugar were also under control, the Union Minister said.While the rate of pulses and edible oil has seen sharp increase of late, efforts will be made to check hike of prices of the two commodities by importing them, he said.On the charge that minorities were under constant attack from the majority ever since the NDA government came to power last year, he said no communal riots have been reported in the country and the minorities feel safer than ever.Non-NDA parties were using communal card to attack the NDA government, he added.He said the NDA government has also succeeded in reining in price rise and inflation during its first year in office in addition to providing a corruption-free and transparent governance and taking steady steps to bring back black money from foreign shores.On Centre-state relations, he said the government believed in cooperative federalism and it accepted the 14th Finance Commissions recommendation to raise the states share to 42 per cent of taxes under divisible pool as against 32 per cent earlier.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App

Govt unveils universal social security and pension schemesNew Delhi, Feb 28, 2015 (PTI) 12:04 ISTFinance Minister Arun Jaitley today announced a slew of low-cost pension and insurance schemes, including Atal Pension Yojana and Universal Social Security scheme.Atal Pension Yojana will provide defined pension according to contribution. Of this, 50 per cent contribution would be made by the government, he said while presenting the Budget for 2015-16 in the Lok Sabha."The government proposes to work towards Universal Social Security for all Indians," he said.Besides, the government proposes to launch PM Suraksha Bima Yojana to increase the access to insurance. It will be linked Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana.The scheme will offer coverage of Rs 2 lakh for premium of just Rs 12 a year, he said."These social schemes reflect our intention that no person suffers from avoidable pain due to illness, old age," he said.

Employees protest outside the IT office in Bhubaneswar. Picture by Ashwinee Pati Bhubaneswar, July 21: Employees of a business process outsourcing (BPO) unit of an information technology company demonstrated at Chandrashekharpur today and damaged glass doors and windows of the office. The employees were unhappy after the company officials had told them that the branch would close down at the end of this month because the mobile service provider company, which had assured it of a project here, had opted for another firm for its BPO work. Sushant Parida, who has been working with the company for three-and-a-half years said that officials from the head office in Mumbai declared four days ago that the BPO unit in Bhubaneswar would be closed down by the month end. But they did not give us a proper reason for the closure at such a short notice. They just informed us that the mobile service provider company had scrapped the BPO deal with them. We asked them to provide us alternatives and give us salaries for the notice period as mentioned in the job contract, said Parida. The agitating employees said when they confronted with the company officials demanding their salary and other benefits, the authorities did not listen to them. When the situation got out of control and the employees surrounded the officials, Chandrasekharpur police were called. In the presence of the police, the officials had assured not to shift equipment from this office until the matter was solved. But yesterday, they took away many computers from here, said an angry protester. This morning, around 500 employees protested in front of the company office and later smashed glass doors and windows. However, the agitators claimed the damaged to the property was done by some motorcycle-borne people who had hurled stones while they were staging a silent protest. Aditya Purohit, another employee, said that if the BPO unit was to be closed, the salaries, employees provident funds (EPF), employees state insurance (ESI) and other perks of the employees should be cleared following the agreement. We want the company to reinstate us or ensure our jobs in the new company that have signed the deal with the mobile service provider. Otherwise, they must provide us our salaries for at least two months as per the agreement, he said. These employees also have met officials in the labour commission who said they would discuss the matter tomorrow. The administrator of the BPO unit, Dipankar Singh, said since a new company would undertake the BPO activities of the mobile service provider, this IT company wanted to close down its Bhubaneswar office. The company will provide perks and salaries for a month. Besides, the new company will recruit these employees. But the employees fear that they will have to start in the new job as freshers and that is why they are creating such a situation here. Talks are going on with them to find out a solution, said Singh. The Chandrasekharpur police said they were aware of the incident. As the company is going to close its office here, the employees fear loss of job and have raised their demands. We are looking into the matter, said inspector In charge of Chandrasekharpur police station Rabi Satpathy.

Financial empowerment key to check male child preferenceCharan Singh, Dec 22, 2015, dhns 23:16 ISTThe government has recently released new data based on the Census 2011 relating to family size and sex ratios.The data reveals that preference for a male child continues and families with fewer or no sons are choosing to have repeated trials for another child. One-child families with only a son outnumbered those with a daughter by nearly 25 per cent. The number of two-child families with both sons were double than those with two daughters.Similar anomaly existed for families with three children having two or more boys compared to two or more girls. The trend does sober down after three children according to the Census data.Another study authored by Hu and Schlosser, and recently published in the Economic Journal, also concludes that girls are more likely to be born in larger families, after the urge for sons is somewhat satiated, given pre-natal sex selection.The above trends are a cause for concern. Since the last five centuries, reformers such as Guru Nanak, Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, have been encouraging spiritual, social and economic equality between genders.They have been urging the society to respect girl child, and not resort to female foeticide or infanticide. However, even after centuries of reforms, the record is dismal as evidenced above.The results are not surprising as one good indicator of preference for sons  sex ratio  measured in terms of male children to female children in the country has persistently been bad in many states, especially those with high per capita income like Punjab and Haryana where pre-natal sex determination and foeticide are affordable and painless.What is surprising is the fact that despite numerous initiatives by the Central and state governments, especially since 1992, significant improvement has not being observed in sex ratios across the country. This aspect needs to be examined.There could be various reasons for the persistence of this male-child preference. The sociological reasons are well-known and extensively documented in various academic studies and government reports. But there are several cultural and religious issues, too, where the importance of male child is stressed.In agrarian societies, like Punjab and Haryana, equal rights in inheritance of land between male and female child can be a cause of concern for the family.On marriage of the female child, if inheritance of land is sought, either the existing plot of land has to be fragmented or an equivalent amount of monetary compensation to be provided. In any case, land fragmentation or monetary compensation could create a burden on the family, which is reflected in the non-preference for a girl child.In general, the key menace of dowry, despite increasing levels of literacy, per capita income and westernisation, continues unabated. The above, and some more, issues have been ascribed as a cause of persistently a adverse sex ratio.But there are a few crucial economic factors which have neither been examined in detail nor focused on by the policy-makers in relation to the psychology of seeking a male child.One such factor is the need for financial independence in old age which can be achieved through pension.The Atal Pension Yojana, recently announced, is an initiative in the right direction; but is limited in scope because of the eligibility criteria that requires holding a bank account and with applicability to young adults between 18 and 40 years of age.A few other social security schemes like Prime Ministers Jeevan Jyoti Yojana and Prime Ministers Suraksha Bima Yojana have similar limitations in terms of having a bank account and a stipulated age profile. As many citizens, especially women, in India do not have a bank account despite efforts under Jan Dhan Yojana, this may not yield the desired change in social behaviour.It needs to be stressed that India has many more female widows than male widows, and the gap widens with age as women tend to live longer than men. Further, the elderly population  above 60 years of age  working in the unorganised sector does not generally have any social security protection.Low employment rateAnother detrimental factor is employment opportunities. In India, in sharp contrast to our neighbouring countries, only about 30 per cent of women are employed. In Nepal, nearly 80 per cent of women are in the workforce followed by China (71 per cent), Bhutan (67 per cent), and Russia (57 per cent).The women in workforce can be expected to be relatively financially independent than those dependent on the income of a male member in the family.In old age, there is always an insecurity regarding shelter as well as financial resources for not only food but also medical expenditure. The opportunity to work provides financial independence to women and, in case of need, the decision to provide shelter to and meet medical expenses of parents is easier.The need is to financially empower the girl similar to a boy, offering equal opportunities and encouraging independence in decision-making. Until parents internalise the value of a female child on par with a male child, at least financially, change in preferences is difficult to achieve as has been witnessed in India.To facilitate this change, various political, religious and social institutions may have to play a role. Reformers may have to devise ways to ensure that a female and male child enjoy similar status in observing social norms and rituals.The government, must also contribute to this effort by assuring the elderly and offering universal old age pension, covering not only expenditure for food and living but also for accident and medical purposes.This financial independence of the elderly, demonstrated for at least a generation, may succeed in lowering the preference for a male child.(The writer is RBI Chair Professor of Economics, IIM Bangalore)

The sanitary workers and the security personnel of the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH) staged demonstration on Monday alleging that the Employees Provident Fund and the Employees State Insurance contributions being deducted from their wages were not being properly remitted.The protesting workers said a private contractor, who had bagged the contract for supplying security personnel and sanitary workers to the TVMCH, had hired the services of 100 security guards and 60 women sanitary workers.The hired workers had been paying a particular amount towards Employees Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance schemes as the contractor used to deduct the amount from their monthly wages.However, the deducted amount was not being paid with the Employees Provident Fund Organisation and ESI and no receipt for the payment was given for the past several months to the beneficiaries, they alleged.When we raised the issue with the contractor, we were verbally abused and threatened. The women sanitary workers, who were raised this issue with the contractor, were compelled to give letters saying that they had been withdrawing themselves from the contract they had signed with the contractor, the workers alleged.Since this is an issue between the private contractor and the workers hired by the agency, we cannot intervene to sort out the issue. Were maintaining the hospital and its surroundings with the minimal strength, a senior doctor said.

A day-long conclave on Transformation of Employment and Social Security Laws was held by Employers Federation of Southern India - Andhra Pradesh and Telangana States Branch (EFSI-AP and TS) in association with Sri City, on the latters premises here on Friday.AP Director of Factories G. Balakishore, who presided over as the chief guest along with Sri City Foundation president Ramesh Subramaniam, maintained that the government with the aim to reduce compliance hassles for companies was putting in efforts to consolidate all labour laws into four broad labour codes.The statutory compliance, concern towards employees' well-being and welfare, besides fair and transparent management practices, will alone help achieve the desired objectives of the labour legislation, the Director of Factories added.He appealed to the HR managers to develop a human touch while dealing with workers.Three sessionsSri City Founder Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy opined that such a move would certainly remove bottlenecks created by the overlapping labour laws and create a conducive atmosphere for business growth.The conference was conducted in three sessions encompassing  Factories Act, Employees Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance, Amendments in Labour Laws, Employee-Employer Relations, Personal Taxation and others.About 100 delegates attended the conference.EFSI-Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Branch vice-chairman B. Jaikrishna, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner (Kadapa) Balakrishna Naik, ESI Regional Director (Vijayawada) Priyaranjan Dash and others took part in the event.

Ahmedabad: Gujarat has filed the second highest number of claims under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) schemes, which were launched by PM Narendra Modi last May. Uttar Pradesh has filed 3,292 claims, followed by Gujarat with 2,509, Telangana 2,388, Karnataka 2,322 and Andhra Pradesh 2,258.Against these 2,509 claims in the state, insurance companies in the state have disbursed a total of more than Rs 45 crore to nominees. This includes 2,066 claims under PMJJBY and 443 under PMSBY in the last year.In Gujarat, around 67 lakh people have been covered by PMSBY (47 lakh) and PMJJBY (19.5 lakh). PMSBY offers a renewable one-year accidental death-cum-disability cover of Rs 2 lakh for a Rs 12 annual premium. The person insured gets Rs 1 lakh in case of partial permanent disability. PMJJBY offers Rs 2 lakh cover for a Rs 330 annual premium. Bank account holders between 18 and 50 years are eligible. Life risk cover is terminated after 55 years.Though enrolment under PMJJBY has been lower than PMSBY despite the higher premium, the there have been more - over 2,000 - claims under this scheme.According to data available, 85% of claims have been settled by insurance companies. For PMJJBY, around Rs 40 crore of claims have been settled. In the case of PMSBY, claims worth more than Rs 5 crore have been disbursed to nominees.A senior public sector bank official said, "More than 85% of claimants come from lower-middle class backgrounds. There are no other conditions to enrol in these schemes and banks are handling them directly, which makes it easy for people."Like Jan Dhan Yojana, the majority of beneficiaries of the insurance schemes got their policies through public sector banks.For PJJBY, Ahmedabad district accounted for the most claims, 325. It was followed by Vadodara at 301, Surat at 168 and Rajkot at 110. For PMSBY, Ahmedabad and Rajkot recorded the most claims, 46 each. They were followed by Surat and Vadodara, with 36 and 35 claims respectively.Across the country, 9.41 crore policies have been issued under PMSBY and 2.96 crore under PMJJBY.However, progress in Atal Pension Yojana has been slow in the state. Only 1.4 lakh people have enrolled for it.

A coalition of non-government and social welfare organisations here have come together under Citizens Committee to place a set of demands to political parties contesting the 2016 Assembly election.The committee representatives told reporters here on Saturday that they were asking for nothing new but only appealing to the political parties to implement in letter and spirit the laws related to prevention of child labour and bonded labour.They said that they wanted the political parties to assure them that discrepancies related to the age of children in various Acts would be removed and all those below 18 years of age would be declared children; that child labour  employing children below 18 years  would be banned and the next government would provide free, compulsory education to all children and the government should stop migration of people for jobs and take steps to provide employment at all towns and villages.The representatives also wanted the political parties to take steps to ensure that the minimum wage was fixed at Rs. 15,000 a month, including for those under apprenticeship or training and implement in total the Weekly Holidays Act, Employees State Insurance Act, Payment of Bonus Act and Employees Provident Funds Scheme Act.The representatives then sought a commitment from political parties that they would ensure implementation of the Apprenticeship Act that stipulated that only 10 per cent of the total work force in a factory should be apprentices. They alleged that now up to 70 per cent were trainee staff.The organisations that are part of the Committee include the federation of consumer organisations in Coimbatore, Coimbatore human rights federation, Akila Bharatha Mootha Kudimakkal Matrum Pensionerkal Kootamaipu, Coimbatore District Cotton Mills Workers Union, CITU and a few more.

\PM Modi is also likely to review several issues related to Women and Child Development, Social Justice and Empowerment, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, and Labour and Employment in the meeting. \PM Modi is also likely to review several issues related to Women and Child Development, Social Justice and Empowerment, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, and Labour and Employment in the meeting.Progress made on setting up of three new All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), six new Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and six Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs), among other things, is likely to figure prominently when Prime Minister Narendra Modi holds a review meeting with his Council of Ministers on Wednesday.This will be the second review meeting of its kind, the first having been held on January 27 in which schemes related to the agriculture, rural development, consumer affairs, food and public distribution, chemical and fertilizer and water resources were discussed.On Wednesday, the PM is also likely to review several issues related to the ministries of Women and Child Development, Social Justice and Empowerment, Health and Family Welfare, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, and Labour and Employment in the meeting, government sources told The Indian Express. As many as 26 agenda items have been shortlisted for this meeting.Through a Cabinet decision in October last year, the government had cleared the setting of three news AIIMS at Mangalagiri near Guntur in Andhra Pradesh, Nagpur in Maharashtra and Kalyani in West Bengal under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana. Union Health Minister J.P Nadda will apprise the PM about the progress made on these projects. In addition, he will also dwell on the progress made under the National Health Mission.Similarly, Union Human Resource Development minister Smriti Irani is likely to give a status report on the progress made on setting up six new IITs in Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Jammu, Kerala and Karnataka. The Union Cabinet had given an in-principle approval to set up these IITs as registered societies under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 last year. The HRD minister will also apprise the PM about the progress made on establishing six new IIMs in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha and Punjab.Operationalisation of the budget announcement on Atal Pension Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, the setting up of a credit guarantee fund for Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana, and the progress made Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana will also be up for review, sources said. Also, the PMs pet projectsthe Swachh Bharat Mission (rural and urban) and the Housing for All by 2022 Missionwill be reviewed.During the meeting, Women and Child Development minister Maneka Gandhi is slated to talk about the recent amendments to the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Bill, 2014.The progress made on the financial restructuring of Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO), Kanpur, and on the setting up of Indian Sign Language Research and Training Centre (ISLRTC) will also be reviewed during the meeting with Social Justice and Empowerment minister Thaawar Chand Gehlot expected to talk on these matters. Gehlot is also expected to brief the PM about the efforts being put in by his ministry for the nationwide celebration of the 125th birth anniversary of Dr B.R Ambedkar.Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana, National Skill Development Mission, National Policy for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 2015, Common Norms for Skill Development Schemes implemented by Centre and Amendment to the Apprentices Act, 1961 will also be up for review during the meeting.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App

BHUBANESWAR: The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) will launch a financial literacy and awareness programme (FLAP) in 27 districts from Sunday.It will mark the foundation day of Nabard established on July 12, 1982, to promote integrated rural development.The programme will be part of NDA government's financial inclusion mission. It aims to create awareness on various schemes like Prime Minister Suraskha Bima Yojana, Prime Minister Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana. During the programme, people in rural areas will be educated on savings, credit, remittance, insurance and pension.Special emphasis would be on Atal Pension Yojana (a pension scheme) that guarantees a fixed monthly pension to people turning 60, sources said."We will rope in NGOs for the awareness programme. All commercial banks and regional rural banks will participate. Besides awareness, people will be enrolled under Prime Minister Jan Dhan Yojana," said chief general manager (Odisha), Nabard, SK Kale.The three districts, Sonepur, Jharsuguda and Boudh, left out of the awareness drive would be covered subsequently, he said.To provide free financial education and credit counseling, the Nabard is planning to open financial literacy centres in all districts through cooperative banks, he added.

Contract employees in many government bodies such as Chennai Corporation are yet to be covered with social security benefits, including provident fund.The Employees Provident Fund Organisation is reaching out to various organisations about the employee enrolment scheme to extend the benefits to such workers.On the sidelines of an interactive meeting with members of Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry here on Friday, Salil Sankar, Regional PF Commissioner-I , EPFO, Chennai region said a minimum of 25,000 workers on contract in government bodies like Chennai Corporation and Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board in city need to be provided with PF and other social security benefits. According to the new scheme, employers can declare details about workers who joined service in April 1998 and pay only employers share of PF and there will be no penalty on delayed enrolment. This scheme will be on till March 31.We are in touch with various institutions such as Anna University to regularise enrolment of all workers, he said.There are over 60 lakh EPFO members in the State and nearly 40 per cent of workers need to be covered under social security schemes. On complaints about website not being accessible, Mr.Sankar said the website,www.epfindia.gov.inwas being upgraded with data related to Pradhan Mantri Rojgar Protsahan Yojana scheme and there were some temporary glitches and now the website is functional.ESIC schemeSimilarly, Employees State Insurance Corporation is also implementing a scheme to promote registration of employers and employees.P.B. Mani, regional director, ESI Corporation, said the ceiling on employees salary to be provided with ESI benefits has been hiked from Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 21,000.We are encouraging establishments and factories to enrol all workers under ESI Act. We plan to cover all the districts instead of just industrial belts. We have also recommended that an ESI society formed as an autonomous body to take quicker decisions on ESI benefits, he said.

NEW DELHI:Sharma, a public sector bank employee, spends over900 commuting between his east Delhi home and his bank branch inby Metro. Add the cost of rickshaw to and from the metro station, and the cost goes up another2,000 a month. If he drove to work, he would spend at least4,000-5,000 a month. Yet, the tax department believes he can make do with just800. Never mind that this figure was fixed in 1998.SudarshanRsChandniChowkRsRsRsAgain, when it comes to genuine medical expenses, government officials, who enjoy unlimited medical cover, seem oblivious to the rapidly rising healthcare and medicine costs. As a result, the exemption limit for reimbursement of medical expenses  last increased from Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 in 1998  has stayed at that level for 15 years now. Any middle-class person could tell you that this is grossly inadequate and can often be exhausted by a single ailment.Similarly, the exemption limit for education allowance paid by employer was fixed at Rs 100 per child per month for up to two children in 2000 (with retrospective effect from 1997) and has remained unchanged."Even in 2000, there was hardly a single public school in a large city that had a monthly fee of Rs 100. Today, it's unimaginable," said a tax consultant who did not wish to be identified.Even the medical insurance exemption limit is proving to be inadequate, especially when there is talk of annual premiums going up by 20-25%. A family of four - where the husband and wife are below 35 and the children are under 10 years - spends more than that amount for a Mediclaim policy from one of the four public sector insurance companies. In case of the private insurers, the premium is expected to be higher.Tax experts are even questioning the Rs 1 lakh investment benefit available under section 80C as provident fund, principal payment for home loans, life insurance premium, investment in public provident fund and tuition fees are all included under this head.There are changes that may adversely affect you too. For instance, when it comes to vehicles provided by a company, the government has fixed the taxable amount at Rs 2,400 a month if the engine capacity is 1,600cc or more. Another Rs 900 is provided for driver. With companies doling out Mercedes and Audis, tax experts believe that even the two amounts need to be revisited since they were also fixed a few years ago.A part of the reason for keeping the reimbursements low is the government's own doing. After all, government officials who are entitled to official cars pay a mere Rs 700 a month for using them - a level that was fixed several years ago and since then the cost of petrol alone has shot up manifold.Similarly, when it comes to medical reimbursements, the government gives limitless allowance to its employees who live in towns that are not covered by the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) or have no health facilities. But a private sector employee would still be covered by the Rs 15,000 cap.Whatever be the reason, the limits seem outdated given that they were fixed several years ago."Certain tax exempt limits like conveyance exemptions, medical reimbursements etc have been fixed almost 10 to 15 years back. Since then, in view of increasing fuel and medical costs, there is a need to consider increasing the exemption thresholds upwards. Similarly, in view of the crowded tax deduction limit of Rs 1 lakh (under section 80C) where almost all savings and long term investments are covered there is a need to revise the deduction limit to at least Rs 300,000 p.a to avail some meaningful relief. Alternatively there may be separate tax deduction limits carved out for important expenditure such as housing loan payment, education expenses, life insurance etc)," said Parizad Sirwalla, partner at consulting firm KPMG.But the changes may not happen immediately. "Although the rules require changes but given that the Direct Taxes Code is on the anvil, the government will probably take stock of the situation when the new law is finalised," said Kuldip Kumar, executive director at consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers.

On Saturday, Modi will launch three social security schemes  Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY).Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who will reach Kolkata on Saturday on a two-day visit to the state, will lay the foundation stone of three central schemes. The visit becomes significant keeping in mind that Bengal will go to polls next year.On Saturday, Modi will launch three social security schemes  Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY)  at Nazrul Mancha in Kolkata.After launching the schemes, Modi will visit Sishumangal Hospital in the city to pay a visit to ailing Atmasthanand Maharaj of the Ramkrishna Mission. He will then head to Raj Bhavan to meet a BJP delegation led by state party president Rahul Sinha. This will be followed by a meeting with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. On Sunday, Modi is scheduled to visit Dakshineswar temple and Belur. From Belur, he will fly to Asansol.Hasmukh Adhia, Secretary (Financial Services) of Union Ministry of Finance, said the Centre will spend at least Rs 150 crore this year to market the three schemes to be launched on Saturday. The administrative cost is very low because of which the premiums charged will be less. Not just public sector insurance companies or banks, a number of private sector banks and insurance companies will also offer these services, Adhiya added.Adhiya explained that the two insurance schemes  PMSBY and PMJJBY  will resolve an important issue like low coverage for accident insurance. They will provide affordable personal accident and life cover to a vast population. The schemes will be linked to the bank accounts and will have an auto-debit facility, he said.Calling the scheme a game changer, Adhiya added that under PMSBY, a renewable one-year accidental death-cum-disability insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh will be given to those in the age group of 18 and 70. For this, a premium of Rs 12 per annum will be charged. Under PMJJBY, a renewable one-year life cover of Rs 2 lakh will be given to all account holders between 18 to 50 years of age, at a premium of Rs 330 per annum. The scheme will be offered through LIC and other life insurance companies.The pension scheme or APY is targeted mainly at the unorganised sector.For all the latest Cities News, download Indian Express App

KOLKATA: A month after chief minister Mamata Banerjee took to the streets against NDA's land ordinance, Narendra Modi launched three social security schemes for the economically backward in a bid to silence the opposition's 'Suit-Boot ki sarkar' charge. Mamata was on dais at Nazrul Mancha while the PM made these announcements."The downtrodden are the backbone of this country. The Prime Minister will be happy to know that at a time when he has announced schemes for the girl child, we in Bengal have also started a nearly Rs 1,000crore Kanyasri Project. We have taken initiatives to provide insurance cover to transport workers, daily wage earners and people from the unorganized sector. When the state and central governments work shoulder to shoulder, the whole country benefits," Mamata said.The three schemes launched by Modi on Saturday are the Prime Minister Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Prime Minister Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and the Atal Pension Yojana (APY). Under PMSBY, a bank account holder between 18 and 70 years of age can get accidental death coverage of Rs 2 lakh by paying an annual premium of Rs 12. The PMJJBY will allow people between 18 and 50 years to get insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh (without any medical checks) for an annual premium of Rs 330. The APY (for those between 18 and 40 years) will allow people in the unorganized sector a pension of up to Rs 5,000 per month after the age of 60. This scheme assures an 8% rate of return on the sum invested."There was a dialogue from a film: "Barah rupaiye mein kafan bhi nahi milta (You don't even get a shroud for the dead for Rs 12). It is the poor who face the greatest crisis. I ask people who have people working at homes: Can't you pay Rs 12 annually to get them insured? I appeal to the several crores of people who can. Under PMSBY, the policy will be honoured even if death occurs due to a natural calamity. Had such a scheme been present in Nepal, so many people would have benefitted. Only 10-15% of the population is under any pension scheme. People may not realize today but they will remember me when they actually receive the benefits. I am not a Rajneta (politician). I am a Pradhan Sewak (prime servant)," Modi said.According to him, nearly 5.05 crore people have already enrolled in these schemes since May 1. Of them, 42 lakh are from West Bengal."It's sad that people haven't benefitted even after the nationalization of banks. Nearly 80% people have no insurance policies or pension. Unless we reach out to the poor, development is of no use. Nearly 15 crore accounts were opened under the Jan Dhan Yojana in 100-125 days. They have deposited Rs 15,800 crore in the accounts. The poor don't need help. Our thought process has to change. They require empowerment. In 1906, Tagore, in his poem Atmatran prayed to God to grant him the strength to bear his burden. We are doing accordingly," he added.In an attempt to shun his pro-industrialist image, Modi said: "Many feel that large industrial houses have brought about economic revolution. This is wrong. It is small enterprise like shops, tea-stalls, tailors and laundrymen who have made a difference."

Revenue secretary Hasmukh Adhia is a member of the GST Council that governs the goods and services tax. Photo: Pradeep Gaur/MintNew Delhi: The appointments committee of the cabinet on Monday named revenue secretary Hasmukh Adhia as the new finance secretary, said an official order. By convention, the senior most secretary in the finance ministry is designated as the finance secretary.As the functional head of the revenue department, Adhia has been overseeing rollout of the goods and services tax (GST) as well as direct tax reforms. The revenue department has been implementing a series of structural reforms in tax administration aimed at widening the tax net and integrating the cash-driven informal part of the economy into the formal one.Prior to his appointment as the revenue secretary, Adhia served as secretary in the department of financial services in the finance ministry. The finance secretarys post fell vacant on the superannuation of Ashok Lavasa last month.Adhia, a 1981 batch IAS (Indian Administrative Service) officer of Gujarat cadre, is also known for helping design social security schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana as well as the micro-financing scheme Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana.There are five departments under the Finance Ministryexpenditure, economic affairs, financial services, revenue, and department of investment and public asset management (Dipam). IAS officer Rajiv Kumar of 1984 batch is the financial services secretary. Ajay Narayan Jha is expenditure secretary and Neeraj Kumar Gupta Secretary, Dipam. Both are 1982 batch IAS officers. Subhash Chandra Garg, a 1983 batch IAS officer, is economic affairs secretary.Adhias appointment comes ahead of the 10 November GST Council meeting in Guwahati that is likely to see a revision in the tax rates for some common use items and easier GST returns filing norms for small and medium enterprises (SMEs), Mint reported on 1 November.

State Bank of Mysore, in association with other banks and insurance agencies, conducted a drive in the city on Thursday to increase the coverage of social security schemes launched recently by the Union government.This included the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Bima (PMJJB) and the Atal Pension Scheme (APS) launched by the government in May.Pratap Simha, MP, who inaugurated the special drive, said that the schemes would provide a security net for people in the unorganised sector which is the objective of the schemes.Unorganised sectorThough pension was available only to government employees and those in the organised sector in the past, the Atal Pension Yojana has brought people in the unorganised sector also into the ambit of the pension schemes, the MP added.Senior bank officials, who participated in the drive, said that it was not a one-time drive but a continuous process to enlist even new account holders for the insurance schemes.SBM Deputy General Manager Balakishan said the District Bankers Forum would be activated to popularise social security schemes and he urged employees to perceive the marketing of these products as a business opportunity.LIC Senior Divisional Manager of Mysuru Division P. Sridhar said that claims would be settled within three days if the documents are in order and efforts would be made to make settlements the same day by crediting the amount in the bank accounts.As on July 15, 2015, the banks in the district have enrolled 3,93,510 subscribers across the three insurance schemes of which PMSBY is the most popular with 2,53,801 account holders subscribing for it.Its popularity stems from a low premium of Rs.12 per annum which entails an accidental insurance of Rs. 2 lakh. The PMJJY had 1,39,171 subscribers while APS had evoked lukewarm response with only 538 subscribers.Giving a thrustDistrict Lead Bank Manager K.N. Shivalingaiah said that business correspondents in rural areas have been instrumental in giving the schemes a thrust and popularising it.Kavery Grameena Bank has enrolled 1,01,104 subscribers to the insurance schemes underlining the popularity of the social security schemes in rural areas.State Bank of Mysore, Canara Bank, SyndicateBank, State Bank of India, Vijaya Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Corporation Bank and Karnataka Bank are among those which have sizeable enrolment among their account holders.They included Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension SchemeIt is a continuous process to enlist even new account holders for the insurance schemes

Union Labour Minister Bandaru Dattatreya on Saturday said the Employees Provident Fund Organisation had started remitting interest to 9.23 crore inoperative Provident Fund accounts in the country from Friday.The payment of interest to these accounts with a total balance of Rs 35,000 crore had ceased in February 2011 as they lacked portability after the subscribers switched jobs or stopped subscription. A recent meeting of the Central Board of Trustees of EPFO decided to pay interest from February 2011 at the rate prevailing in each of the past five years, Mr. Dattatreya told a press conference here on Saturday.He added that the EPFO will activate all the universal account numbers (UAN) allotted to workers by the end of this financial year. So far, 6.47 crore UAN numbers were created but only 2.45 crore numbers were activated. There were, however, 15.85 crore PF accounts of workers in 6.31 lakh establishments in the country.On settlement of PF claims by EPFO, Mr. Dattatreya said the time taken for the process was brought down from 30 to 10 days and the effort was to reduce it further to three days with the aid of information technology. As many as 1.18 crore claims were settled in 2015-16.The Labour Ministry was focussed on employment generation by earmarking a budget of Rs 1,000 crore. The objective was to provide jobs to two crore people.Referring to the withdrawal of PF facility for staff of Kingfisher Airlines, he said a committee which was looking into the matter would soon submit its report on what needed to be done. The PF of employees of breweries owned by Vijay Mallya were cleared but the problem was only with the airlines since it started making losses.Asked if the PF establishment here would be split into Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, he said the matter was under consideration of the Ministry. The Employees State Insurance Corporation was already divided between the two States but not the EPFO.

The fifth Impressionist 2016 series and 155th painting exhibition will be held at the Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust - Art Gallery on Avinashi Road from November 2 to 8 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. For details, call 0422-2574110.ESIC helplineEmployees State Insurance Corporation has launched a toll-free helpline 1800-425-1897. It is functioning at the ESIC Sub-Regional Office. Beneficiaries/stakeholders of the scheme may call up the helpline number to get information about benefits provided and latest developments and initiatives by the Corporation. It will function from Monday to Friday (on all working days) between 9.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m.EPFO drop boxAs part of the Vigilance Awareness Week, Employees Provident Fund Organisation - Regional Office has installed a drop box for complaints and grievances.A grievance redress camp will be conducted at 11 a.m. on November 3 for the benefit of citizens, customers, vendors and contractors.

Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish launched a pension scheme for unorganised sector workers here on Tuesday.She handed over identity cards for the scheme to 22 unorganised workers, who would get a monthly pension of Rs. 3,000.Street vendors, autorickshaw drivers, load-men, maids, cobblers, handloom weavers, brick kiln workers, construction workers, dhobis, sound service workers could join the scheme to get a monthly pension after the age of 60. Those who were covered by social security schemes like Employees Provident fund, National Pension Scheme and Employees State Insurance Corporation could not be enrolled.Those who want to get enrolled should register their names with the Common Service Centres by producing the Aadhaar Card, bank account details and pay the first month instalment (from Rs. 55 to 200 depending upon the beneficiaries age between 18 and 40). Subsequent monthly instalments up to the members age of 60 would be deducted from the members bank account directly. On attaining the age of 60, the members would get the pension, which would be remitted in their bank account directly.District Revenue Officer B. Muthuramalingam, senior officials from the Departments of Employees Provident Fund and ESIC were present.ThoothukudiDistrict Revenue Officer M. Veerappan, distributed identity cards to 20 workers of unorganised sector here on Tuesday.The workers should have a monthly income of less than Rs. 15,000 to avail the scheme. If a beneficiary dies after 60 years, his spouse would get 50% of family pension. If a beneficiary passes away before the age of 60, his spouse can continue to pay the premium.ESIC Deputy Director, Tirunelveli, Arulraj, District Labour Assistant Commissioner Balamurugan, LIC branch manager Muthusamy, Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Mandhan Yojan district coordinating officer Karthikeyan and other officials were present.

The Centre on Wednesday extended the deadline for obtaining Aadhaar for availing government schemes and subsidies by three months to December 31.The extension is, however, only for those who are yet to apply of Aadhaar, an order issued by the ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said.As many as 135 schemes (of 35 ministries) including the free cooking gas (LPG) to poor women, kerosene and fertiliser subsidy, targeted public distribution system (PDS) and MGNREGA will be covered by the extension.The government had previously made quoting of Aadhaar necessary for availing government benefits and subsidies like those on cooking gas LPG. Those who did not have Aadhaar were asked to procure the unique identification number by September 30.This deadline has now been extended till December 31, the order said.As a result of the review of welfare schemes covered and to provide the benefits of such schemes to all eligible beneficiaries of the scheme, it has been decided to further extend the stipulated date in all such notifications up to December 31, 2017, the order said.The extension would also apply for Employees Pension Scheme of 1995, scholarships, housing subsidy benefit, stipend to SC/ST trainees for coaching guidance and vocational training, stipend to handicapped, Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana, national apprenticeship and skill development schemes, crop insurance schemes, interest subvention scheme, scholarship and fellowship schemes, various education programmes such as mid- day meal for children and Atal Pension Yojana.It is hereby clarified that this extension shall only apply to those beneficiaries who are not assigned Aadhaar number or those who have not yet enrolled for Aadhaar. Such beneficiaries are required to enroll for Aadhaar by December 31, 2017 and provide their Aadhaar number or enrolment ID, it said.A source said that there will be no denial of services in the interim period.

New Delhi, Oct. 6: Aadhaar is now mandatory for all post office deposits, the public provident fund (PPF), the National Savings Certificate scheme and the Kisan Vikas Patra.The finance ministry has issued four separate notifications, declaring Aadhaar mandatory for the schemes.Existing depositors have been given time till December 31, 2017, to provide the 12-digit unique identification number.The move comes a month before the Supreme Court hears all pending biometric data cases after an earlier ruling made the right to privacy a fundamental right.It is expected that the apex court will provide clarity on whether Aadhaar is unconstitutional or legal and justified. This will have a bearing on whether everybody needs to link Aadhaar with their bank accounts and mobile numbers."Where the Aadhaar number has not been assigned, the depositor shall submit a proof of application for the enrolment of Aadhaar," the notification, dated September 29, said.Existing depositors who have not provided the Aadhaar number at the time of application for such deposits "shall submit their Aadhaar numbers to the post office savings bank or deposit office concerned, on or before December 31, 2017," it added.The government has insisted on quoting Aadhaar for bank deposits, mobile phone connections and several other utilities to weed out black money.Last month, it extended the deadline for obtaining Aadhaar to get government subsidies by three months to December 31. Earlier, those who did not have Aadhaar, were asked to procure it by September 30.As many as 135 schemes, including free cooking gas to poor women, kerosene and fertiliser subsidy, targeted public distribution system and MGNREGA will be covered by the extension.The extension will also apply for the Employees' Pension Scheme of 1995, scholarships, housing subsidy benefit, stipend to SC/ST trainees for coaching guidance and vocational training, stipend to handicapped and Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana. Besides, it will be applicable for national apprenticeship and skill development schemes, crop insurance schemes, interest subvention scheme, scholarship and fellowship schemes and education initiatives such as mid-day meal.

Willy Brandt is not commonly associated with reforms in popular literature emerging from the Western world about reforms, but the former West German chancellor is looked upon as a reformer who laid the foundation for a modern welfare state in Europe.When Rao began breaking up the shackles of the Indian economy, he was hobbled by coalition politics and vested interests from his own party to undertake many decisions that would have crowned him as the Brandt of India. In the first phase of economic reforms, Rao unleashed an entrepreneurial spirit which may have given shape to the many schemes providing safety net under the Narendra Modi government.Although Manmohan Singh 's government was instrumental in talking about digital technology and building unique identification for individuals, it's the Modi government which seems to have grabbed the initiative and used them as convenient tools to push its welfare agenda, be it direct benefit transfer, Jan Dhan accounts, Atal Pension Yojana or widening insurance coverage for farmers."The Modi government is building on what was started by the UPA," says Indira Rajaraman, economist and a former member on the board of the Reserve Bank of India . "What this government has tried to do incrementally is financial inclusion, increased reach of LPG, and insurance and direct benefit transfers through Jan Dhan. Some welfare schemes have gone astray like Swachh Bharat.Schemes linked with Jan Dhan have done well." The jury may be out on what the Modi government is touting as the biggest reform measure - demonetisation - which the opposition calls as the worst destabilisaton. But there is a silver lining on some of the schemes that the Modi government started to push early on.In 2015-16, the insurance industry has covered a total of 44.73 crore people under personal accident insurance, including 25.75 crore covered under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana scheme.The government's life insurance scheme- Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana - a term life insurance covering a life for `2 lakh for a premium of Rs 330 a year is also fast catching up. In the last two years, three crore people have bought life insurance policies. Similarly, one can buy personal accident for Rs 12 a year for a cover of Rs 2 lakh and the number of people who have it is at 3.07 crore, up from 1.92 crore in 2015 when it was started."This is an organised approach to cover under social security net," said SB Mathur, former chairman of LIC and a member of the Irda board. "Pure risk cover was never popularised before the way it is now. Realisation has come in that protection element needs to go up."One of the reasons for high savings and poor financial investments in the country is attributed to the lack of safety net as people are worried about the absence of a safety net. With the changes that are coming with increased insurance reach, attitude may also change.Apart from protection, the insurance on livelihood is also making a difference with nearly half the population dependent on agriculture. Farm insurance with the backing of the government has accelerated in the past few years, which provides comfort as well as helping in diversifying crops. The coverage of kharif crops by the National Agri Insurance Scheme has grown rapidly. During the Kharif season of 2012, about 10.6 million farmers were covered with a total sum insured of Rs 27,199 crore. The number of farmers covered almost doubled to 20 million during kharif 2015 with a sum insured of `51,848 crore, data from Indian Council of Food and Agriculture shows.Many of these measures would not have been possible without the reach of Aadhaar, the unique identification scheme which is estimated to have enrolled more than 92% of the population. Efforts have been made to link most of the bank accounts with Aadhaar. The number of accounts opened under Jan Dhan scheme has now reached 257 million as of November 2016, up from 125 million in January 2015.Also, the number of zero balance accounts has fallen significantly to 23%, from 67.3% in January 2016. Whether demonetisation turns out to be a success or not, the government is aiming at least to have more people in the tax net which could help it accelerate the reach of welfare measures. "The government is trying to expand the tax net and use the incremental money to widen the safety net," said SK Ghosh, an economist with State Bank of India.When Modi came to power in 2014, many predicted that he may turn out to be the reformer who would throw out state-owned enterprises and promote capitalism on the lines of Regan or Thatcher who were popular for setting the West on growth path with their open trade and free-flow of capital policies."In India, 90% of the workforce is in the unorganised sector, and lacks social security like pension, medical, life or unemployment insurance," said Ajit Ranade, chief economist at the Aditya Birla Group. "As India progresses towards becoming a developed nation, we will have to provide comprehensive social security to the poor, the unemployed, the elderly and the disabled."He said that NREGA currently acts as proxy unemployment insurance in rural areas. Jan Dhan Yojana has greatly helped expand financial inclusion. The connected life insurance coverage is subsidised and is helpful. The Atal Pension scheme is also a step in the right direction. Today, around 34 lakh people have opted for pension schemes in India under the Atal Yojana."But more needs to be done to scale up the benefits and coverage, to make them more effective," said Ranade. "This will also need substantial fiscal resources, which thankfully will be available thanks to GST, low oil prices and part benefit of demonetisation."Continental Europe chose a different path which was humane, and very different from the ruthless 'hire and fire' policies of the US and UK. Countries like Germany, France, Norway chose a different path where there was enough safety net and corporate taxes funded programmes for the common man. Rao probably chose Brandt as his model because Germany is well known for reforms. More funds found its way to healthcare coverage, transportation, communication and housing.Brandt laid a foundation for free enterprise but the government finance aimed at community benefits. "India is getting close to the European model of capitalism," said Abheek Barua, economist, HDFC Bank. "We rank low on a number of parameters and the government has stepped in to improve the social security net, and justifiably so. To have welfare schemes and to push them are critical at this stage of development. States needs to play a role in upliftment of its people who have been neglected over a long period of time."

The way ahead for social securityNavneet Anand, October 24, 2015 0:01 ISTDespite having access to the governments social security programmes, a large number of people fail to lead a dignified life. There are many more who are worse off  trapped by poverty, deprivation  and face social exclusion. This raises questions about the way the country has followed its principle of a welfare state, an idea integral to the Constitution of India.The preamble to the Constitution lays down the framework of a government which offers to its people various security to enable them to live a dignified life. Article 41 of Directive Principles of the State Policy asks the states, within the limits of its economic capacity and development to make effective provision for securing the right to work, to education and to public assistance in cases of unemployment, old age, sickness and disablement, and in other cases of undeserved want.Article 42 says the state shall make provisions for securing just and humane conditions of work and for maternity benefits. Ever since independence, India has had many programmes designed to provide social security to people  addressing their needs for food, pension, health and even employment.We had a Targeted Public Distribution Policy, for instance, which guaranteed those below the poverty line highly subsidised food grains and kerosene. A Mid Day Meal programme offered food to school children while programmes like National Old Age Pension Scheme and National Maternity Benefit Scheme offered support to the poor, elderly and women.While these were Central government-supported national-level schemes, many states also introduced their own social security programmes. Odishas Madhubabu Pension programme covers over two million poor beneficiaries who are old, destitutes, widows and differently abled.Despite a plethora of programmes, the country could not substantially reduce its number of poor or those who were in needs of states assistance. Either we spend a little too less  India spends 1.4 per cent of its GDP on social protection, which is among the lowest in Asia  or we design bad. Critics say the social security programmes may have been fragmented, their coverage limited in terms of both workers and contingencies, and their delivery ineffective.Little wonder, despite substantial economic growth over the decades, we continue to have a poverty level of 30 per cent. Sadly, a large chunk of workforce - about 93 per cent of total in India  work in the informal sector and any kind of social security continues to elude them.Imperatives of growthIn this backdrop, it may be time to revisit the approach and opt for universal measures to ensure better social protection cover for all. This is critical in view of the new imperatives of development in the age of globalisation where it is felt that people should get adequate social guarantees to enable them deal with lifes risks.The Social Protection Floor (SPF), which is a joint UN campaign and is anchored by the International Labour Organisation (ILO), may be the way forward for better social security framework. The SPF is sets of basic social security guarantees to secure protection aimed at preventing or alleviating poverty, vulnerability and social exclusion. It corresponds to a set of basic social rights and services to ensure effective access to essential health care and basic income security throughout the life cycle.According to the ILO, it should comprise four basic guarantees including access to essential health care, including maternity care; basic income security for children, providing access to nutrition, education, care and any other necessary goods and services; basic income security for persons in active age who are unable to earn sufficient income, in particular in cases of sickness, unemployment, maternity and disability; and basic income security for older persons.The recent announcements by Prime Minister Narendra Modi  especially the three-tier social security schemes  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana, and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, though contributory  is a positive step towards universal coverage of social security provisions as it aims to cover all, with focus on poor and vulnerable people.Odisha, with over 50 social security programmes and a sharp focus on providing protection to almost all who need it, is a good example of universalising access to social security, a key ideal of Social Protection Floor.(The writer is with Fijeeha, a development communication forum)

The workers of Hassan City Municipal Council have continued their protest against irregularities in paying salaries.The deductions in salary meant for employees provident fund and employees state insurance have not been credited to the accounts concerned, and revised salary had not been implemented, they alleged.The workers began their protest in front of the CMCs office on November 2. On Saturday, they staged a dharna outside the Deputy Commissioners office.Medical expensesDharmesh, district president, Centre of India Trade Unions, told presspersons, The ESI facility is meant for employees treatment in designated hospitals. However, the employees have been made to bear medical expenses as the CMC has not credited the deductions to the institution concerned in time. The employees are taking private loans to meet the expenses, he alleged.No leavesThe workers, who have been employed through an outsourcing agency, are made to work without a holiday for months together.The employees are not granted leave even when they fall sick. In some cities, the municipal workers are assured of breakfast. The Hassan City Municipal Council has not fulfilled the demand so far. Though the workers are employed through the outsourcing agency, the CMC is the main employer. The commissioner and president of the CMC have to respond to the problems, said Syed Mujeeb, State general secretary of CITU.CMC president H.S. Anil Kumar had not responded to the workers protest, Mr. Dharmesh alleged. When he was in the Opposition, he did support the workers and assured them that he would fulfil their demands. He should remember his words, Mr. Dharmesh added.

NEW DELHI: The government is considering an umbrella insurance scheme under which all Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) account holders will be offered free Rs 2-lakh insurance cover for three years amid a broader push to create a robust social security net for the poor.There are about 27 crore account holders under the PMJDY fiscal inclusion scheme. Of these, 16 crore have been seeded with Aadhaar numbers, ensuring that welfare payments reach their intended beneficiaries.If the scheme provides both accident and life insurance, the benefit could cost the government more than Rs 9,000 crore, it's been estimated. "There are various proposals that are being considered," said a government official aware of deliberations. "One of them is to provide the insurance cover and the government will bear the premium cost for three years."The government launched three social security programmes in 2014  the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and the Atal Pension Yojana (APY)  to bring the poor into the fold of formal financial services. According to finance ministry data, 3.06 crore people have been enrolled under PMJJBY and 9.72 crore under PMSBY. Insurance penetration  the proportion of premiums to GDP  is low; it was 3.44% in 2015. The life insurance cover under PMJJBY is available for an upfront premium payment of Rs 330.Accidental insurance under (PMSBY) costs Rs 12 annually and covers accidental death and disability.In both cases, the policyholder is eligible for a benefit of Rs 2 lakh. "The government can bear the premium cost for both life and accidental insurance scheme. The general insurance scheme can be immediately offered to all Jan Dhan account holders," said the official cited above.The other option is that the scheme is structured along the lines of APY, with the government cocontributing 50% of the total premium or Rs 1,000 per year, whichever is lower, to each eligible subscriber for a period of five years till 2019-20."Banks have already been directed to educate Jan Dhan account holders about the existing social schemes," said the official, adding that since some money has come into these accounts after demonetisation, holders can be persuaded to buy basic insurance cover. So far, 44,720 claims have been registered under PMJJBY, of which 40,375 have been paid out. Of the 8,821claims under PMSBY, 5,878 have been paid.ET ViewCentre Must Pick Up TabThe government's intent is laudable, given that even one health emergency can push a family back into abject poverty. The Centre must foot the bill for these account holders in its entirety. Premiums should cover actuarial costs to enable insurers underwrite the business. Both the Centre and the states must also focus on preventive public health care such as providing clean drinking water and sanitary disposal of sewage. The case to increase government spending on healthcare is compelling.

indiaUpdated: Apr 29, 2020 14:14 ISTFormer finance minister P Chidambaram on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide Rs 1 lakh crore wage protection assistance to 6.3 crore Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to help them pay wages and salaries to 110 million people engaged in these MSMEs for the month of April.And for non-MSMEs, he said the government should announce a Paycheque Protection Programme on the lines of the steps taken by the United States.This is not a legislation but a financial assistance package, Chidambaram said, addressing the press through video-conferencing.It is bewildering that there has been absolutely no financial package or assistance announced for businesses since the onset of Covid-19. The government may have the luxury of time but the MSMEs do not. They need to know right away whether they will be helped to stay afloat and thereby pay salaries and wages to those dependent on these businesses, he said.Tomorrow is the last working day of the month. More than 12 crore people of India are waiting with bated breath. They want to know if they will be paid their salaries and wages for the month of April. There is palpable tension and rising uncertainty among the working people of India and their families, Chidambaram said.According to the annual report of the MSME ministry, the senior Congress leader said 11 crore people are engaged in 6.3 crore MSMEs and most of them would not have worked a single day in the month of April because the entire country was in a lockdown imposed to contain the coronavirus pandemic.How will these people feed themselves and their families without an income? These 11 crore peoples livelihoods are in danger now because most of the employers are unable to pay wages and salaries. The businesses have had no sales this month and their payments to their vendors are also stuck, leaving the vendors also in distress, he said.Large swathes of the private sector are faced with what economists call an extreme liquidity shock. Furthermore, these businesses are also unsure about their future. They do not know whether they can continue their businesses or will be forced to shut down permanently. The time to make bold decisions to save the MSMEs is now. If businesses do not see hope, they will decide to close, he added.The government has to step in today to protect 110 million Indians and give hope to 6.3 crore MSMEs, Chidambaram said, adding the Congress has submitted a proposal with specific, well thought out and concrete suggestions to help them.We urge the Prime Minister to look at that proposal and immediately announce Rs 1 lakh crore wage protection assistance to MSMEs to help them pay wages and salaries for the month of April, and also Rs 1 lakh crore credit guarantee fund for MSMEs that will help them to go to the banks and borrow money, he said.Elaborating on the Paycheque Protection Programme, the former finance minister said according to the income-tax department, there are roughly 10 million people with a salary income of less than Rs 3,50,000 a year or Rs 30,000 a month.Assuming an average salary of Rs 15,000 a month for these 1 crore people, the total cost comes to Rs 15,000 crore for the month of April. This is not a large sum to protect the livelihoods of 10 million people who have filed tax returns and paid taxes in the past, and can be easily found. The government must announce a Paycheque Protection Program right away to protect the salaries of these 1 crore employees.The Congress also suggested waiver of employers contributions to the employees provident fund (EPF) and employees state insurance (ESI), on a temporary basis, for the next three months, he said, adding this will assist in reducing the payroll costs of employers and retaining the workforce.Time is of the essence. In the absence of a clear signal of assistance from the government during these extremely difficult times, the private sector will be forced to resort to large scale retrenchments and layoffs which will devastate livelihoods of hundreds of millions of people, Chidambaram said.We urge the Prime Minister to step in urgently and announce an assistance package to protect the wages and salaries and pay cheques that are due in the next few days, he added.

The medical college of the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) in Coimbatore will start functioning from the 2014 academic year, Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment Kodikunnil Suresh told presspersons here on Wednesday.The Minister, who was here to participate in a review meeting, said that the Ministry was implementing several projects and programmes in the State. The corporations medical college in Chennai (KK Nagar) would be inaugurated this year and admissions to the college would commence this academic year.In the case of the medical college in Coimbatore, 75 per cent works were over. The ESIC had invested about Rs. 520 crore for the medical college here.The ESI would also take over the Coimbatore ESI hospital from the State Government and the process had started for the same.Since renovation works were on at the ESI hospital here, the 500-bed facility now had only 250 beds. It would be a 300-bed hospital by September and a 500-bed hospital again by December.The ESIC also planned to start new hospitals at Sriperumpudur, Kanyakumari, Tuticorin and Tirupur in Tamil Nadu and each of the four hospitals would have 100 beds. The ESIC would invest over Rs. 100 crore for each and had started the land acquisition process for these. Construction works were on for a new building for a 100-bed hospital at Tirunelveli and the works would be over in six months.The Minister added that ESI coverage was not available in four districts in Tamil Nadu  Ramanathapuram, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Tiruvarur. The coverage would start in Ramanathapuram and Tiruvarur districts.In the case of Employees Provident Fund, the Minister said that Coimbatore region covered 29,996 establishments with 40 lakh members in 18 districts. During 2012-2013, as many as 1,825 establishments were covered adding 1.91 lakh members.The trade unions were demanding that the salary ceiling for ESI benefit should be increased to Rs. 25,000. The ESIC board had to decide on this, he said.

Beckoning devotees:N. Kumaran Sethupathy, the scion of Sethypathy dynasty, and N.J. Udaya Singh, Superintendent Post Offices (Ramanathapuram Division), launching the sale of Gangajal at Ramanathapuram Head Post Office on Wednesday. Photo: L. BalachandarThe Head Post Office (HPO) here has launched sale of Gangajal, the holy water drawn from the Ganges, and all the 200 bottles sold like hotcake on the opening day.N. Kumaran Sethupathy, the scion of erstwhile Sethupathy Kingdom and N.J. Udaya Singh, Superintendent of Post Offices (Ramanathapuram Division), launched the sale here on Wednesday.The HPO made available the Gangajal, drawn from the river in Rishikesh, in 500 ml bottles and 200 ml bottles. All the 200 bottles were sold out and we have decided to place indent for 1,000 bottles each in 500 ml and 200 ml, Mr. Singh said.Next week, the bottled Gangajal would be available for sale at the Main Post Offices in Paramakudi and Rameswaram, and subsequently in other Post Offices in Kilakarai, RS Mangalam, Thiruvadanai, Mudukulathur, Kamudhi and Sayalkudi, he said.The 500 ml bottle was priced at Rs. 22 and the 200 ml bottle Rs. 15, he said. Based on demand, we propose to make the holy water available in all the post offices in the district, Mr. Singh told The Hindu .He said the Department of Posts also proposed to enlist customers and encourage the general public to join Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), the government-backed accident insurance scheme with an annual premium of Rs. 12, and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), the government-backed life insurance scheme with an annual premium of Rs. 330.More than 2,000 existing customers have joined the PMSBY and about 600 the PMJJBY. We proposed to enrol 25,000 people in the PMSBY and 5,000 in the PMJJBY by next March, he said. The department also encouraged people to join Atal Pension Yojana, the government-backed monthly pension scheme, he added.

Nearly 8.13 lakh savings bank accounts opened across the StateThe Department of Posts has launched a campaign Ungaludan Naangal to encourage people to open savings accounts without hassles and to popularise its services.In the last two months, nearly 8.13 lakh saving accounts under different schemes were opened across the State. Tamil Nadu circle has added one of the highest number of accounts in the country since January. The campaigns covered savings bank, recurring deposits, selvamagal semippu thittam, public provident fund and senior citizens savings schemes. At present, there are 2.9 crore savings accounts across the State.B. Selvakumar, chief postmaster general, Tamil Nadu circle, said camps were held periodically at rural areas to enable residents to open new accounts and get introduced to insurance schemes such as Prime Minister Suraksha Bima Yojana and Prime Minister Jeevan Jothi Bima Yojana.Residents could get access to Aadhaar services, including enrolments and updates, done through the special camps. The campaign would be held in all postal circles till March 31.Officials said the rurring deposits garnered more response during the campaign. Nearly 4.12 lakh recurring deposit accounts were opened in the State in the past two months. Tiruchi and Chennai regions contributed to about half of the recurring deposits opened since January.We held exclusive melas for various schemes. For instance, in Chennai city region, about 45,000 recurring accounts were added during a mela day held last week. In Chennai city region alone, about 2.24 lakh new savings accounts were opened due to such initiatives this year, said an official.Besides weekly camps at rural and peri-urban areas, post offices would give priority to open SB accounts and customers may get ATM cards immediately, officials said.However, several postal customers in Ambattur and Tambaram said the increase in minimum balance from 50 to 500 would lead to closure of postal saving accounts, especially in rural areas. They demanded that the minimum balance be revised as post offices largely catered to lesser privileged people.Officials said they had written to the Union Ministry of Finance to reduce the minimum balance in postal saving accounts to 250.

Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment Kodikunnil Suresh on Wednesday said the enhancement of wage ceiling for coverage of employees under the Employees State Insurance (ESI) Act would be notified soon. The wage ceiling for availing benefits under ESI would be enhanced from salary range of Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 25,000, he said.In a monthSpeaking to presspersons after laying the foundation stone for an ESI dispensary and diagnostic centre at Nanjangud near here, the Minister said the Labour Ministry had discussed the issue of increasing the wage ceiling and the government is expected to issue a notification in this regard in about a month.About 32 lakh additional employees in the country would be eligible to get ESI cover after the wage ceiling enhancement, he said.He said the decision had become necessary with the salaries of government employees and those in the private sector having increased. Several employees had been deprived of ESI cover due to change in salary slabs.Wage ceilingMr. Suresh said the government is also planning to raise the Employees Provident Fund Schemes statutory wage ceiling for provident fund contributions to Rs. 15,000 per month from the present Rs. 6,500.The Central Provident Fund Board had already discussed the matter.The matter will come up again for discussion in the next board meeting, he informed.He said the interest rates on Provident Fund will not change this fiscal.Cashless treatmentEarlier, speaking after laying the foundation stone for the ESI dispensary and diagnostic centre on the grounds adjacent to the Vidya Vardhaka Sangha in the temple town, Mr. Suresh said Rs. 126.45 crore had been spent during 2012-13 on cashless super-specialty treatment of the employees under ESI cover in 85 hospitals in the State, which have tied-up with the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) for extending cashless treatment.

NEW DELHI: Finance Minister Arun Jaitley will meet heads of PSU banks tomorrow to discuss the issue of non-performing assets (NPAs) and the steps being taken by them to expedite the recovery of bad loans which have crossed Rs 6 lakh crore.Besides, the minister will review the financial performance of all the public sector banks (PSBs) at the meeting, the first between Jaitley and them in the current fiscal.The meeting also assumes significance as it will be the first after last month's promulgation of the ordinance amending the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.The government had through this ordinance empowered the Reserve Bank to ask banks to initiate insolvency proceedings to recover bad loans and promised more measures to resolve the NPA crisis.Apart from the financial performance review, the meeting will take stock of the status of stressed assets and various measures taken to clean up the balance sheets of banks so that they can start lending."Major issues on the agenda of the meeting, the first during this fiscal, include issues and solutions relating to Non Performing Assets (NPAs) of the Public Sector Banks (PSBs), status of MSE Credit, Stand-up India and Mudra Yojana among others," the finance ministry said in a statement.Other issues on agenda include discussion on financial inclusion and literacy, review of performance of Social Security Schemes including Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) etc, it said.The day-long meeting will also cover areas like cyber security, digitalisation of the banking transactions, rural development, agriculture credit and education loans.Role and preparedness of banks in the implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST) is also likely to be discussed in the one day Meeting of PSBs, it said. GST is going to be rolled-out from July 1.As for the recovery of bad loans, the RBI has also made substantial changes in the related norms and warned banks of monetary penalty for missing NPA resolution timelines.Jaitley had said the ordinance empowered the Reserve Bank to issue "directions to any banking company or banking companies to initiate insolvency resolution process in respect of a default under the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016".Toxic loans of PSBs rose by over Rs 1 lakh crore to Rs 6.06 lakh crore during April-December 2016-17.Gross NPAs of PSBs nearly doubled to Rs 5.02 lakh crore at the end of March 2016, from Rs 2.67 lakh crore at the end of March 2015

FM Jaitley to review Q1 performance of PSU banksAugust 23, 2016, New Delhi, DHNS/Agencies 0:40 ISTFinance Minister Arun Jaitley will meet the heads of public sector banks on September 16 to review their first quarter performance which has been marred by bad loans of the lenders.The Finance Minister will review the first quarter performance of public sector banks and financial institutions on September 16, sources said.Besides, he will also discuss credit growth and bad loan situation, they said, adding that the various recovery measures by banks and the legislative steps taken by the government to expedite recovery are also part of the agenda.Gross non performing assets of the public sector banks have increased from 5.43% (Rs 2.67 lakh crore) in 2014-15 to 9.32% (Rs 4.76 lakh crore) in 2015-16.Many banks including Bank of India, Dena Bank, and Central Bank of India, reported losses for the quarter ended June 30, due to a sharp jump in provisions for NPAs on account of an asset quality review mandated by the RBI in December.At the same time, a number of banks including the countrys largest lender SBI witnessed a 78% drop in consolidated profit to Rs 1,046 crore as against Rs 4,714 crore profit in the same quarter a year ago. Besides, Bank of Baroda, Andhra Bank and Union Bank of India among others posted massive decline in profit.In a bid to shore up cash-strapped public sector banks, the government last month announced infusion of Rs 22,915 crore capital in 13 lenders including SBI and Indian Overseas Bank to revive loan growth that has hit a two-decade low.Sources said, the meeting will also take stock of schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY).Jaitley will also review the progress made with regard to Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency (Mudra) and Stand Up India programme.

The Centre proposes to promulgate the new Employees Provident Fund (EPF) and Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Acts providing more choice, increased coverage among workers and employers and better and expanded range of services for organised sector workers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said here on Tuesday.He inaugurated a medical college and newly-constructed buildings of ESIC Hospital here.Keeping in mind our commitment to minimum government and maximum governance, the ministry is simplifying central labour laws by consolidating the existing 44 laws into four labour codes  on wages, industrial relations, safety and security, and health. This will increase the ease of doing business and facilitate job creation, without compromising on genuine protections and rights available for workers, he said.We are progressing on the reforms path by building consensus on these reforms through extensive stakeholder consultations with employers, workers representatives and State governments, he added.The Union government launched the second generation reform agenda ESIC 2.0 last year. My government is dedicated to the welfare of our brothers and sisters who are our Rashtra Nirmatas , he said.The ESI scheme has been extended to Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur, Andaman and Nicobar islands. It is proposed to expand the coverage from industries and commercial establishments within a district to entire districts by March 31, 2016.So far, 23 colleges across India have received the approval to increase the number of MBBS seats by over 1,700. This includes four State Government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu  at Coimbatore, Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Madurai - that have received approval to upgrade by adding 345 more seats.The government is also keen on establishing AIIMS-like institutes across the country and has approved one for Tamil Nadu.No real issueLater, speaking at a rally, Mr. Modi said the Opposition had no real issues to target him and have resorted to stalling the Rajya Sabha to block passage of crucial Bills.We work hard and pass the laws in the Lok Sabha. But in the Rajya Sabha, they says lets see what we could do to him and are blocking every thing. Is this good politics? They are hurting the people in trying to teach me a lesson, Mr. Modi said.On the economic front, he said there was an overwhelming global consensus that among the larger economies, India was the fastest growing.'FDI inflow gone up'Under our government, FDI inflow has gone up by 39 per cent, he claimed.The Prime Minister also dwelt extensively on the welfare measures initiated by the Centre, including the new crop insurance scheme, the launch of Make in India and Start Up India and administrative reforms.

By Express News ServiceNEW DELHI: The labour ministry has decided to put the eighth Quarterly Employment Survey (QES) on hold as officials have been deployed in the field to collect and collate data from the unorganized sector.The QES gives details on the number of jobs created in eight sectors which account for around 80 per cent of Indias total organized workforce.Another reason for putting the QES report on hold is that it gives the government time to add the payroll data to it, a ministry official said, and added that the payroll data had higher projections for the number of jobs created in the organized sector. The payroll data projects that 35 lakh jobs were added in the formal sector between September last year and March 2018. This is in stark contrast to the seventh QES reportfor April to September 2107which showed only 2 lakh jobs being created.The move is seen as contradictory, as initially, the ministry had planned to release separate surveys for the organized and unorganized sectors. The latest QES report was due in May and was to give details about jobs for the October-December 2017 period. The payroll data is the first estimate based on data from the Employees Provident Fund Organisation, Employees State Insurance Corporation, and Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority.

How do you find out if an aspiring bureaucrat's vision is in sync with that of the party in power at the Centre and the state? Well, it can perhaps be best confirmed from their performance in civil service exams.Lakhs of aspirants, who appeared for the UP Provincial Civil Services (PCS) preliminary exams held on September 24, found that the questions had a strong reverberation of the schemes and programmes launched by the Narendra Modi government.Flagship schemes of the NDA government, including Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY), Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY), Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and Swachh Bharat Mission, featured prominently in the PCS examination paper.While the positives were highlighted to a large extent, those who set the question papers made sure schemes that were heavily criticised -demonetisation and GST implementation -were out of the ambit of the exam."Even I feel that the central government schemes have been projected quite a lot in the provincial services examination," a member of Uttar Pradesh Public Services Commis sion headquarte red in Allahabad told TOI on the condition of ano nymity .Kumar, a can didate who appe ared the third ti me for the PSC exam at Allahabad, said, "It is an attempt to glorify the government's achievements." Recalling exams of previous years, Kumar added that he has never seen a question paper dominated by central government programmes. The prominence of the Centre's schemes could be seen in the question in which the candidate was asked to arrange schemes in chronological order of their launch. The options included Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, Digital Gender Atlas for Advancing Girls' Education, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana.Yet another question that required candidates to list schemes in chronological order included Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and Make in India. The question on Swadesh Darshan Scheme asked aspirants development of which circuit -Heritage, Sufi, Ramayana or Coastal -was not included in the scheme.Urja Ganga Gas Pipeline Project and requirements of Startup India also got a mention in a couple of questions.Asked about dedication given to the Modi government this year, UP Public Service Commission secretary Jagdish Tripathi expressed his inability to comment on the issue.He told TOI that the commission has no role in setting the examination paper and people are hired from outside for the purpose.This year, 2.46 lakh candidates appeared for about 400 vacant PCS posts for the year 201718. The PCS examination has 20% horizontal reservation for women candidates.

Midday meal cooks to get paid via e-transferPrakash Kumar, NEW DELHI: June 8, 2015, DHNS 23:20 ISTIn what could come as a significant relief to a large number of midday meal cooks-cum-helpers, Human Resource Development (HRD) Ministry has decided to make payment of their remuneration directly into their bank accounts.The HRD Minister Smriti Irani has also initiated a move to get all these cooks-cum-helpers covered under Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.She recently wrote a letter to all the chief ministers, urging them to ensure that every cook engaged under midday meal programme in their respective states get benefits of these three social security schemes announced by the Narendra Modi government.The Ministry also held a two-day national level consultation in Meghalaya on June 1 and June 2 and discussed road map with the state governments for extending the benefits of the NDA governments social security schemes to midday meal cooks, a senior official of the Meghalaya government told Deccan Herald.At the meeting, states were also asked to ensure opening of bank accounts of all cooks-cum-helpers for e-transfer of their honorarium.Nearly 26 lakh cooks-cum-helpers are engaged in cooking and serving of midday meal for schoolchildren across the country under the centrally sponsored scheme. Majority of those engaged in the job are women, who come from weaker sections of the society and are very poor.In most of the states including Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, these cooks-cum-helpers are paid a pittance, Rs 1000 per month as honorarium for 10 months. This, too, comes late from six months to one year. Delay in payment of honorarium has been one of the major grievances of the midday meal workers.Except Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odissa and Punjab, a large number of cooks do not have bank accounts and those who have accounts are paid through cheques.The HRD Ministrys decision to make payment of the honorarium directly into the accounts of the cooks-cum-helpers would come as a big relief. On many occasions, the cooks have accused school authorities of demanding bribe for releasing their honorarium.A couple of months ago, a large number of cooks-cum-helpers from Bihar and UP staged a protest here in Delhi, demanding an increase in their honorarium from the current Rs 1000 and for direct payment to their account.

Members of the district unit of the Karnataka State Tailors Association staging a dharna outside the Deputy Commissioners office in Udupi on Tuesday.Members of the district unit of the Karnataka State Tailors Association staged a dharna outside the Deputy Commissioners office here on Tuesday demanding that the government continue the National Pension Scheme (NPS) Lite for tailors instead of imposing the Atal Pension Yojana on them.Addressing the protesters, William B. Machado, president of district unit of the association, said that the government should continue the NPS Lite for the tailors in the 40-60 age group. The NPS Lite was started in 2010-11.The tailors in the 18-40 age group should also be continued in NPS Lite instead of being transferred to Atal Pension Yojana. The quantum of amount receivable as retirement income under NPS Lite should be clearly notified.The government should extend the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana and the Aam Bima Yojana to the unorganised workers belonging to below the poverty line (BPL) and above the poverty line (APL) categories. All tailors who had completed 60 years and had made payment under the NPS Lite should be declared as retired and their proportionate retired income should be sanctioned. Both the Union and State governments should continue to provide monetary grants to NPS Lite.

Union Minister of State for Road Transport, Highways and Shipping Pon Radhakrishnan extended insurance benefits of Rs.2 lakh each to two families of victims at Tharuvaikulam on Friday evening under Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY).The cheques were handed over to the families of A. Selvakumar (35), fisherman of Tharuvaikulam, who died accidentally after slipping into sea while fishing and M. Murugan (40), a sanitary worker of Tharuvaikulam panchayat, who died of poor health.While talking to reporters, he said Prime Minister launched PMJJBY with a contribution of Rs.330 annually and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), an accident insurance scheme with a contribution of Rs.12 and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) scheme to provide social security benefits to people.He said the East Coast Roads would be widened as four lane from Chennai to Kanyakumari under Bharat Matha project and Nitin Gadkari, Union Shipping Minister had announced funds to the tune of Rs. 10,000 crore towards these road widening projects.Further, he said the emergence of Colachel Port would not affect the growth of VOC port here and said Tuticorin seaport would continue to make big strides.S. Karthikeyan, Chairman, Pandyan Grama Bank (PGB) and other officials from this bank including S. Subbiah, Regional Manager, Tuticorin, Sangilipandi, Regional Manager, Tirunelveli, V. Chandrasekaran, Branch Manager and P. Jeeva Lingam, Senior Manager, Tuticorin Regional Office and S. Maharajan, president, Tharuvaikulam panchayat attended.

Employment situation picked up in 2014 but did not take off until the second half of last year. Photo: Hemant Mishra/Mint2019 is the year of national parliamentary elections in India. In 2018, several states will elect their legislative assemblies. Both the years will witness more noise than discussion, and more heat than light. Even research that might have been in the works and published this year or next will be viewed through tinted (or tainted) glasses. A recent paper by Pulak Ghosh of the Indian Institute of Management in Bengaluru and Soumya Kanti Ghosh, chief economic adviser of the State Bank of India, is an early victim of such a politicised interpretation.If one searched for their report, one gets a summary and a full report. The authors have been careful not to claim that their work is the most authoritative one on the state of job creation in India. Nor do they claim that they have come up with a model to estimate job creation in the entire Indian economy: formal, or informal and agricultural sectors. They are very clear that their work is about whether jobs are being created in the organised sector. Towards this end, they have looked at data from the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESI) and the National Pension System (NPS).As far as one can tell, they seem to have erred only on the conservative side. They have made their assumptions clear. They claim that India is on track to create 5.5 million formal sector jobs based on trend in the current financial year, up to November 2017.My initial reaction was one of scepticism. The first question that came to mind was the reconciliation between job creation and economic growth, and job creation and bank credit growth to industry. Indias gross domestic product (GDP) growth has slowed throughout the financial year 2016-17, and it appears to have bottomed out in the first quarter of 2017-18. In the quarter ending September 2017, there was a slight rebound in economic growth. However, bank credit to industry has not really picked up. Therefore, it would be reassuring if other evidencedirect or indirectreinforces their estimate of formal job creation.I will now examine four issuesjob creation by large listed companies, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) surveys of manufacturing companies, funding constraints for businesses and, finally, informal employment.Healthy growth in job creation by large corporationsFirst, India does not have a survey of business or commercial establishments as the US has. So, there is no payroll estimate available from employers. In October last year, Mahesh Nandurkar, the India strategist at CLSA India, wrote in Business Standard, We looked at company annual reports of listed companies and nearly all listed companies give number of employees as at the end of the financial year. This is the most authentic and high frequency (once every year) data that one can get. Our analysis of more than 900 listed companies with a total employee base of 5 million shows that jobs growth has been good at 3.7% during FY17 and 4% in FY16. This is actually in line with the jobs growth seen for these companies over the last 10 years. Thus, at least for this sample, the jobs creation has not slowed down over the last two years.As Nandurkar correctly points out later in the article, these are jobs created directly by Indias large listed companies on their payroll. Indias tax policy and tax system favour capital over labour, unfortunately. Yet, if their payroll growth has been around 4% in the last two full financial years, then it is quite likely that in the overall formal sector (including small but unlisted firms), job creation has witnessed a higher percentage growth. Yes, that would be still formal sector jobs, even if not necessarily better-paying corporate jobs. Even employees hired by contract labour firms (Teamlease for example) and placed in companies would be counted as formal jobs because EPFO, ESI contributions will have to be made for those workers. Ghosh and Ghosh do not claim that all the formal sector jobs that have been created have been created on the payrolls of the corporate sector. Indeed, they do want India to start measuring corporate payroll.Hiring and hiring intentions picked up in 2H2017Second, the Reserve Bank of India conducts several useful quarterly surveys. One of them is the Industrial Outlook survey which asks more than a thousand businesses (companies) in the manufacturing sector about various aspects of their business conditions from inventory to working capital to exports to imports and to employment conditions.Two charts are shown below. One goes as far back as the data permit. The other is from the time the National Democratic Alliance government came to office.These are net positive responses (increasedecrease of jobs) on employment. The information content of the charts is high. Net hiring by manufacturing businesses fell precipitously from 2011 until 2013 (three years) almost reaching the lows seen in the aftermath of the global crisis of 2008. That is a reason to suspect the economic growth numbers that are now reported for that period. They are too rosy to be credible. The job situation was dire. That is another story for another occasion.That said, employment situation picked up in 2014 but did not take off until the second half of last year. The uncertainty caused by demonetisation is seen in the data and there was a dip in the second quarter of 2017 (April-June). In 2017, hiring intentions have taken off even more impressively than the present employment situation. So, the RBI survey does not negate the picture that Ghosh and Ghosh have painted.Bank lending was not missedThird, what about the fact that banks were not lending to industry? In its assessment of the Indian financial system (Financial system stability assessmentpress release and statement by the executive director for India, December 2017), the International Monetary Fund made two observations: The Indian financial system is undergoing a gradual structural shift, with a greater role for non-bank intermediaries and higher recourse to market funding for large corporates. The financial system is diversifying, with market shares of nonbank intermediaries (notably, mutual funds and nonbank financial companiesNBFCs) and private sector players increasing graduallyalbeit from a low base. Banks share in credit flows fell from 50% during FY2015/16 to 38% in FY2016/17, as corporates increased private debt placements and issued commercial paper, replacing bank funding with market sources.Clearly, credit-worthy borrowers have been able to tap the market and raise funding. Hence, meagre bank lending growth need not have held back hiring by the formal and incorporated entities that had access to capital markets.Informal employmentdo we know anything?Finally, what about informal employment? Timely data are not available. One must rely on surveys. Most surveys of informal employment done after demonetisation start with a pre-conceived conclusion and find responses that would validate them. The case in point is a rather interesting study on the response of the community in rural Tamil Nadu to demonetisation (Insights on Demonetisation from Rural Tamil Naduunderstanding social Networks and social protectionEconomic and Political Weekly, 30 December, 2017). The authors mention that there was widespread support for demonetisation. Yet, they write in dire tones about its impact. They do not concede the possibility that they may be missing something given the wide public opinion support that they acknowledge twice in the report. Second, most non-agricultural jobs in India have no written contract (see Chapter 2, Economic Survey 2012-13). It is more likely the case for informal jobs. Therefore, it is rather difficult to know if, on balance, jobs were created or destroyed in the informal economy.Clearly, much needs to be done to create good quality jobs in India, from enabling job-seekers with the right and matching skills and attitudes, to lowering the cost of hiring labour, to making hiring workers desirable and to enable hiring in well-paying jobs. The first thing the government can do is to work on creating a better and timely jobs market data. Indeed, yours truly wrote that a useful mission for NITI Aayog will be to improve Indias economic data to first-world standards. America sets the standard even among developed countries. In this regard, what the Ghoshs have done is a very good starting point. Critics have to do better than to set up strawmen arguments and knock them down.V. Anantha Nageswaran is an independent consultant based in Singapore. Read his Mint columns here.Comments are welcome at baretalk@livemint.com

By Express News ServiceNEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday formally launched the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan (PM-SYM) Yojana in Vastral, Gujarat, and distributed PM-SYM cards to select beneficiaries.The launch was broadcast to over two crore workers at three lakh common service centres across the country through video conferencing.The scheme will assure a monthly pension of Rs 3,000 for the enrolled beneficiaries in the unorganised sector. It is for the first time since Independence that such a scheme has been envisaged for the workers in the informal sector, the Prime Minister said.Urging people to enrol in the scheme, he said respecting the dignity of labour will take the nation forward. The PM also said that no hassles would trouble the people looking to enrol in the scheme.Only a form needs to be filled with Aadhar number and bank details.The cost incurred by the common service centre for enrolling a beneficiary will be borne by the Union government. This is the miracle of Digital India, Modi said.The Prime Minister said that the various schemes initiated by the government like Ayushman Bharat, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, PM Awas Yojana, Ujjwala Yojana, Saubhagya Yojana, and Swacch Bharat specifically target those working in unorganized sector.The PM-SYM along with the health coverage provided under Ayushman Bharat and life and disability coverage provided under Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana will ensure comprehensive social security coverage for the workers in the unorganized sector at their old age, he said.Reiterating his strong stance against corruption, Prime Minister said his government is committed to eliminating middlemen and corruption.Modi lives for cameraCongress chief Rahul Gandhi said PM Narendra Modi lives for the camera and accused him of ignoring the problems of the sanitation staff in Prayagraj, where he washed their feet during the Kumbh Mela.

Union Minister for Labour and Employment M. Mallikarjun Kharge has expressed hope that the Finance Ministry will approve the decision of the Central Board of Trustees (CBT) of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation to increase the interest rate from 8.5 per cent to 9.5 per cent for 2010-11, before the Union Budget.I have done my best in the interests of provident fund subscribers. It is up to the Finance Ministry to take a decision. I am confident that the decision will soon before the budget, the Union Minister said.ModernisationSpeaking to presspersons after laying the foundation stone for modernisation of the Employees State Insurance (ESI) Hospital at a cost of Rs. 25 crore on KRS Road here, the Minister said the surplus of Rs. 1,800 crore in the Interest Suspense Account (ISA) could be passed on to the provident funds subscribers by increasing the interest rate.Mr. Kharge expressed dissatisfaction that the State Government was not fully utilising the benefits extended by his Ministry for the labour welfare in Karnataka.DevelopmentAfter taking charge of the Ministry, Rs. 2,000 crore had been set aside for development works, including modernising ESI hospitals, in Karnataka.The Centre's share in running of ESI hospitals is 85.5 per cent while the State's contribution is only 12.5 per cent, he noted.There is no dearth of funds, and the State Government should make use of the opportunity by working closely with the Ministry. I am a Kannadiga and the Director-General of ESIC, C.S. Kedar, is also a Kannadiga. So, the State Government should take advantage of it and support labour welfare schemes, the Minister suggested.Hospital projectsMr. Kharge disclosed that 128 ESI hospital projects at a cost of Rs. 9,000 crore had been taken up in the country, and several such projects were coming up in the State, in cities such as Bangalore, Gulbarga, Davangere, Hubli and Mysore.TreatmentHe said ESI members can avail themselves of super-speciality treatment in private hospitals if ESI hospitals were not equipped to provide such care.The super-speciality care had been notified and cashless treatment provided at hospitals.Wage boardsThe Minister said the recommendations of the wage boards for working journalists and other employees of newspapers and news agencies, headed by G.R. Majithia had been studied in detail and the Cabinet note on the recommendations had been circulated among the Ministries of Finance, Company Affairs, Law and Information and Broadcasting. After the feedback from the Ministries, the note would be placed before the Cabinet, Mr. Kharge added.

Making a point:Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment Kodikunnil Suresh (left) having a word with President of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, R.R. Balasundaram, at a function in Coimbatore, on Thursday.- Photo: M.PeriasamyThe Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospital here will be upgraded to a 300-bed hospital soon, according to Kodikunnil Suresh, Minister of State for Labour and Employment.He told presspersons here on Thursday that the hospital now had 250 beds.The medical college of ESIC here was expected to start admissions from the 2014 -2015 academic year. By then, the hospital would have 500 beds.We are going to apply to the Medical Council of India in January.After they inspect, there will be clearance for the 300-bed hospital. Our target is to start the medical college here in 2014-2015.We need 500-bed hospital for the college according to the MCI norm. When we start the medical college, there will be 500 beds, he said.The total investment for the project here is nearly Rs. 1,000 crore. Seven ESIC medical colleges were started this year in the country and five more would be started next year.With regard to the pension scheme of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation, he said that the Ministry was getting several representations to increase the pension. The EPFO took a decision to enhance the pension to Rs. 1,000 and it was sent to the cabinet.However, since the Finance Ministry had an objection, a subcommittee had been formed to find a way out.Recently, the ESI Board took the decision to enhance the salary ceiling of ESIC workers to Rs. 25,000 from Rs. 15,000.We are waiting for the notification, he said.At a meeting organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, the Minister said that there is a long pending demand to enhance the ceiling of EPF from Rs. 6,500 to Rs. 15,000 and to fix minimum EPF pension as Rs. 1,000.I hope both the demands will materialise soon.The Rashtriya Swasthiya Bhima Yojana would be gradually extended to other segments of the unorganised workers.The proposal to amend the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 to prescribe a National Floor Level Minimum Wages had been approved by the cabinet and the bill would be placed before Parliament shortly, he said.Medical college of ESIC expected to start admissions in 2014 -2015academic year

The AITUC has urged the government to include all the unorganised sector workers under the Employees State Insurance and Employees Provident Fund schemes.A resolution to this effect was adopted at the annual district conference of the AITUC held in the city recently. The meeting also demanded the state government to convene tripartite talks for earmarking funds for the unorganised sector workers welfare board for distributing financial assistance to its members under different schemes.Another resolution said that a whopping 30,000 applications of the non-formal sector workers for assistance are pending with the Social Security Wing of the Labour Welfare Department for the past two years. The applications pertained to natural death assistance, accident aid, educational scholarship, and pension.So far, the officials have completed enquiries only on about 3,500 applications. The conference called upon the state government to allocate Rs. 3 crore for the disbursement of assistance for all genuine applicants.The meeting demanded the authorities to inform the beneficiaries once the funds are sanctioned. The government should set up an exclusive welfare office to deal with the non-formal sector workers in the city.The monitoring committee under the chairmanship of the Distrtict Collector should meet once a month to discuss the issues pertaining the unorganised sector workers. Such meetings were not held for many months, the resolution complained.

Anuradha Shukla ByExpress News ServiceThe Union ministries are busy creating profiles of the beneficiaries of various welfare schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna, Ayushman Bharat, PM Kisan Scheme and Standup India in the states including Bihar and West Bengal that will go for polls soon. The Central government has launched various schemes in the last few months. We are creating the financial profiles of states, in terms of how people have availed benefits of various government schemes, especially the flagship ones. It will help us get the socio-economic profiling of the states, said an official from the department of financial services under the Ministry of Finance.While this seems to be a routine exercise, the various ministries have been asked to start with states that will go for assembly elections in the next one year. The survey will start with Bihar, West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. All these states will go for polls in next one year. According to the official, the internal survey will include the number of bank account holders, beneficiaries of PM Kisan Yojana, Housing for All and Standup India initiatives, among others. Apart from these, it will also create a database of the number of subscribers for the national pension scheme, saving patterns, among others.This exercise will help understand the economic development in these regions. While states maintain their own profiles, some states like West Bengal are not very cooperative when it comes to participation in some of the Centre-sponsored schemes. This review of schemes, therefore, becomes significant, said another senior official. The exercise is a direct fallout of the Delhi election results, where despite intensive campaigns led by Union home minister Amit Shah in the last four weeks before polls, the BJP lost to Aam Admi Party, whose campaign was solely based on social welfare schemes. Now with assembly elections scheduled in Bihar in October and in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal in May, the ruling party is focusing closely on the economic issues, unemployment and financial inclusion.

MANGALURU : Syndicate Bank has canvassed 30,000 policies of Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) through its 80 branches in Dakshina Kannada district.The bank will strive to canvas 1 lakh PMSBY policies and 50,000 PMJJBY accounts by the end of this month, explained K T Rai, field general manager of the bank for Manipal region, here on Thursday.Rai said there is an overwhelming response to the three social security schemes that PM Narendra Modi launched in Kolkata on Saturday.The bank canvassed 17.5 lakh policies nationwide and 4.5 lakh in Karnataka on May 9, the day the PM launched these three schemes, Rai said.He added that the bank has set itself a target of canvassing a minimum of 55 lakh such policies, given their low premium rates.Incidentally, various banks across the country enrolled five crore account holders for these schemes on the day of their launch.Expressing confidence that the bank in Dakshina Kannada will certainly achieve the above targets for PMSBY and PMJJBY, Rai explained that no targets have been set for APY, which primarily targets those in the unorganized sector. "It may take banks, including ours some more time before people opt for APY here," he saidReferring to the performance of the field general manager's office (FGMO) that he heads in Manipal, Rai said it has achieved a business of Rs 28,635 crore with deposits of Rs 18,298 crore and advances of Rs 10,337 crore, including Rs 6,785 crore to priority sector.

MUMBAI: In the 50 years since banks were nationalised, the recapitalisation bill from FY18 to FY20 at Rs 2.69 lakh crore has been higher than in the first 45 years  estimated to be less than Rs 1.5 lakh crore. In the last 10 years, the government has been consistently capitalising public sector banks (PSBs) with Rs 3.8 lakh crore between FY11 and FY20. This does not include the Rs 20,000-odd crore that Life Insurance Corporation has paid for acquiring 51% stake in IDBI Bank The government has been forced to infuse funds after PSU banks reported collective losses from FY16 to FY19 totalling Rs 1,64,474 crore. These losses put pressure on government finances at multiple levels as the Centre lost out on dividends and tax revenue.While the bulk of the capital infusion came under the NDA II government, the maximum number of bank-delivered social schemes were also announced under this regime. These include Jan-Dhan Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Atal Pension Yojana.Although banks were first nationalised in July 1969 with a second round of nationalisation in 1980, the capital requirement was felt only in the mid-90s. Liberalisation of the economy and financial sector reforms resulted in the RBI adopting global prudential norms for banks.As a result, immediately after reforms in 1992-93, the profitability of the PSBs as a group turned negative with 12 nationalised banks reporting net losses. Besides recognising bad loans (which triggered the losses), the RBI has also set a deadline of March 1996 for attaining a capital adequacy ratio of 85. With eight banks missing the deadline, the Centre was forced to infuse capital.After the financial sector reforms, the government ended up spending Rs 20,446 crore in bank capitalisation in the 1990s to enable them to meet global capital standards. The subsequent decade saw banks being net contributors to the government as easing interest rates, capital-raising through listings and a growing economy helped PSBs book record profits.The latest round of recapitalisation has been triggered by former RBI governor Urjit Patels move to clean up PSU banks by scrapping all loan-restructuring schemes and forcing banks to recognise stressed loans as default. However, despite recapitalisation, banks have been losing marketshare to private banks. This is reflected in the market cap of PSU banks, which is only Rs 6 lakh crore as against Rs 17.16 lakh crore for private banks.In 2014, the RBI had appointed a committee headed by former Axis Bank chairman P J Nayak to review governance of boards of banks in India. The Nayak committee had pointed out that  given the lower productivity, steep erosion in asset quality and demonstrated uncompetitiveness of PSBs over varying time periods  the recapitalisation of these banks will impose significant fiscal costs. The committee had said that unless the governance of PSBs improves, it would impede fiscal consolidation, affect fiscal stability and eventually impinge on the governments solvency.Consequently, the government has two options: Either to privatise these banks and allow their future solvency to be subject to market competition, including through mergers; or to design a radically new governance structure for these banks in order that repeated claims for capital support from the government, unconnected with market returns, are avoided, the report said

Speeding up financial inclusion, toilets in every school, reducing LPG subsidy and electrification of villages were some of the key promises made by Modi during his second Independence Day Speech on August 15, 2015. FactChecker reviewed the implementation of the key announcements he made, as we did previously for his 2014 speech.1. Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana: More than 228 million bank accounts opened as on August 3, 2016, an increase of 31 per cent from 174 million in 2015 -- 24 per cent of these accounts had no money, a reduction of 22 per cent from 2015. The balance in the accounts increased 85 per cent over one year, from Rs 22,033 crore to Rs 40,795 crore.The previous United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government had opened more than 50 million "no-frills" accounts -- as they called them -- for the poor over five years, but most were never used, IndiaSpend reported in October 2014.2. Swacch Vidyalaya Abhiyan: Claim of 100 per cent separate toilets for boys & girls in all schools not trueRandom checks across seven states revealed widespread infirmities, such as:* Many schools, from urban New Delhi to backward, often remote, areas, did not have toilets. The specific claim that every school now has separate toilets for boys and girls in all schools was not true.* Existing toilets in schools -- either already built or new -- do not have water or are not maintained, making them useless.* Newly built toilets could not be used because in the rush to build them, no drainage was constructed.* The campaign aimed at constructing 417,000 toilets in 262,000 schools, or 1.5 toilets per school. One or two toilets per school is not quite enough.* Educating children in using toilets has proved to be as important as building them. The construction of toilets has been so rushed that various stakeholders do not appear to have had time to understand the importance of the mission and implement it in full measure.3. Give it Up: 10.4 million have given up LPG subsidy voluntarily, 1.76 million women get free gas connections4. LPG subsidy saving 10 per cent of claim made by govt: Rs 2,000 crore not Rs 20,000 crore, says auditorThe Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) also found systemic problems with cash transfers -- called Pahal -- of LPG subsidy, including diversion of domestic subsidy for commercial use and commercial LPG being used in homes.The subsidy discrepancy mostly stems from a fall in the global price of LPG imported, the CAG report said.5. Electricity to villages: Govt says 98.1 per cent electrified, but electricity supply suspectWhat happened: As many as 587,569 of 597,464 villages (98.1%) in India were "electrified" as on June 30, 2016, which means only 9,895 do not have electricity, according to a recent report by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA).A village being declared "electrified" does not mean a household will get electricity, FactChecker reported in November 2015."The first threshold for electrification should be at least 50 per centof homes in a coverage area (i.e., the majority)," according to Rahul Tongia, Fellow at Brookings Institution, and Advisor to the Smart Grid Task Force of the central government.Actual electricity is important -- and that there should be no power cuts-to achieve meaningful electrification, Tongia wrote in this column in The Hindu on October 7, 2014.An investigation of rural electrification data by The Hindu found that the number of villages said to be electrified in the last year is exaggerated.6. Social security: 127 million people enrolled for three major programmesAtal Pension Yojana (APY) has been given to 2.7 million, Prime Minister's Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) to 94.5 million and Prime Minister's Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) to 29.7 million citizens as on June 14 2016, according to official data.More recent data tabled in the parliament indicates that 3.04 million Indians have registered under APY as on July 20, 2016.7. Rural India: Agriculture budget increased by 44 per cent -- from Rs 24,909 crore ($4 billion) in 2015-16 to Rs 35,984 crore ($5 billion) in 2016-17, to address growing distress in rural areas from successive monsoon failures -- and several rural programmes launchedBut, 5 per cent of farmers still control 32 per cent of India's farmland and a "large" farmer in India has 45 times more land than a "marginal" farmer, IndiaSpend reported in May 2016.The land that can be farmed has marginally declined, from 182.5 million hectares in 2008-09 to 182 million hectares in 2012-13, mainly for non-agricultural purposes, such as urbanisation, roads, industries and housing, according to data tabled in parliament.8. One Rank One Pension for service personnel: Approved, but protests continueModi approved the OROP proposal in April 2016. It will cost the government an additional Rs 7,488 in annual pensions and Rs 10,925 crore in arrears.As many as 1.6 million pensioners were paid their first pensions through the OROP programme; Rs 2,861 crore was spent until March 31, 2016. Certain issues and anomalies have been raised by servicemen, which a government panel is considering.

As the spate of farmers suicides continued in the State owing to debt and other reasons, bankers have decided to organise counselling camps for farmers in distress. They have also decided to enrol farmers under social security schemes.A meeting of bankers held here has instructed Lead District Managers (LDMs) to hold counselling camps on all Saturdays at Raitha Samparka Kendras (RSKs) across the State. Bank managers have been told to involve teachers, NGOs, elected representatives and officials of line departments in the counselling of farmers.In fact, many LDMs have already started counselling camps in pursuance of the directions of State-Level Bankers Committee, and are yielding good results, said Arun Shrivastava, managing director and CEO, SyndicateBank.The State reported that 184 farmers committed suicide during the last three months. As many as 152 farmers ended their lives in July, 20 in June and 12 in May. A total of 1,031 cases have been filed against erring moneylenders and 515 persons have been arrested in Karnataka.Following RBI directions, the LDMs have been told to assist farmers by providing relief measures through rescheduling and restructuring of loans and by providing fresh loans to take up agricultural activities, wherever required, a bank official said.SchemesCoinciding with Raksha Bandhan, bankers have decided to enrol farmers and the poor under three social security schemes  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana  in August and September.Mr. Shrivastava said enrolment would be done without insisting on the certificate of good health. The LDMs have been told to rope in insurance firms and district administrations to ensure maximum enrolment.

As Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to deliver his third Independence Day speech on August 15, he is inviting ideas from citizens on issues he should speak on.Speeding up financial inclusion, toilets in every school, reducing LPG subsidy and electrification of villages were some of the key promises made by Modi during his second Independence Day speech on August 15, 2015. FactChecker reviewed the implementation of the key announcements he made, as we did previously for his 2014 speech.1) Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana: More than 228 million bank accounts opened; 24% have no money.What Modi said: I had announced Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna on the last 15th of August. Even after 60 years of Independence; even when the banks were nationalised for the poor, 40% people of the country were without a bank account till the last 15th of August; the doors of the banks were not open for the poor. My countrymen, today, I can proudly say that we achieved that target within the time frame. 17 crore people opened their bank accounts under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna. With a view to extend opportunities to the poor, we had said that these bank accounts could be opened with zero balance.What happened: As many as 228.1 million new bank accounts have been opened as on August 3, 2016, an increase of 31% from 174 million in 201524% of these accounts (zero-balance accounts, in officialese) had no money, a reduction of 22% from 2015. The balance in the accounts increased 85% over one year, from Rs 22,033 crore to Rs 40,795 crore.The previous United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government had opened more than 50 million no-frills accountsas they called themfor the poor over five years, but most were never used, IndiaSpend reported in October 2014.2) Swacch Vidyalaya Abhiyan: Claim of 100% separate toilets for boys and girls in all schools not trueWhat Modi said: It just came into my heart and I had announced that we would build separate toilets for boys and girls in all of our schools till the next 15th August. But later on, when we started work, the Team India figured out its responsibilities, we realised that there were 2 lakh and 62 thousand such schools where more than 4.25 lakh toilets were required to be built. I compliment all the state governments, government officers of the districts, policy framers and implementers of educational institutions, who were involved in realising this achievement.What happened: A nationwide FactChecker check revealed the claim that 100% of Indias schools was not true. Random checks across seven states revealed widespread infirmities, such as:Many schools, from urban New Delhi to backward and often remote areas such as Chatra district (Jharkhand) and Sedam Taluka, Gulbarga district (Karnataka), did not have toilets. The specific claim that every school now has separate toilets for boys and girls in all schools was not true.Existing toilets in schools in areas such as Delhi, Sitapur (Uttar Pradesh), Tumkur (Karnataka), Dantewada (Chhattisgarh) and Wanaparthy (Telangana) -- either already built or new -- do not have water or are not maintained. That makes them useless. Without water, and after a few students used them, they became unusable.A man cleans the Red Fort area after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech. (AFP File Photo)Newly-built toilets in Vidisha (Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Chauhans constituency), Chatra (Jharkhand) and Baramulla (Jammu & Kashmir) could not be used because in the rush to build them, no drainage was constructed. In Baramulla, a toilet was constructed where there was no school. The school had been moved a year ago, but the toilet construction went ahead, so it could be shown as built.The campaign aimed at constructing 417,000 toilets in 262,000 schools, or 1.5 toilets per school. This meant a maximum of two toilets in some schools, one in others. One or two toilets per school is not quite enough (For instance, in Pillangkatta, Ri Bhoi district, Meghalaya, two government schools, each with more than 250 students, had just one toilet each; there were no separate toilets for boys and girls, and there was no water.)Educating children in using toilets has proved to be as important as building them. The construction of toilets has been so rushed that various stakeholders do not appear to have had time to understand the importance of the mission and implement it in full measure.Read | Swarg me charcha: How independent India looks like from really high upToilets were either in very bad condition or were unusable, according to another investigation conducted by ABP News in May 2016 across several states.In June 2016, five girls in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradeshs Satna district left a state-run school in the absence of a proper toilet.3) Give it Up: 10.4 million have given up LPG subsidy voluntarily, 1.76 million women get free gas connections.What Modi said: My brothers and sisters, I had made a request to my countrymen that if you are economically sound, then why do you avail subsidy on LPG? Why do you need this paltry amount of rupees five to seven hundred which you usually spend on petty snacks? I had just started giving message about this, I didnt launch any campaign as yet, because I have faith in Team India. As the message spreads the result would come, but today I can tell with pride that ever-since I had launched movement of give it up subsidy of LPG gas cylinder, till date, 20 lakh (2 million) consumers have already given it up.What happened: As many as 10.4 million people gave up their LPG subsidy voluntarily, according to recent official data from the ministry of oil and petroleum. The Centre launched Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana to provide LPG connections to 50 million women from families who live below the poverty line over a period of three years, starting from financial year 2016-17.As many as 1.76 million connections have been given under the programme as on 25 July 2016, according to data tabled in Parliament.4) LPG subsidy saving 10% of claim made by govt: Rs 2,000 crore not Rs 20,000 crore, says auditorWhat Modi said: Countless efforts of several types have to be made to wipe out the corruption in such a vast country, and that can be done. If I had said that I would cut subsidy worth Rs 15 thousand cores on LPG gas, then I can say that hundreds of articles would have been written to glorify my government. They can say that this man has the power and strength to discontinue the subsidy worth Rs 15 thousand cores on LPG gas.In May 2016, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan claimed that this amount was more than Rs 21,000 crore in the last two financial years.What happened: A recent report by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), the governments auditor, tabled in Parliament during the current session, found that the saving from those who gave up the LPG subsidy added up to less than Rs 2,000 crore, The Hindu reported on July 20, 2016.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is greeted as he walks among schoolchildren after delivering his Independence Day speech from the Red Fort in New Delhi. (AFP File Photo)The audit also found systemic problems with cash transfers -- called Pahal -- of LPG subsidy, including diversion of domestic subsidy for commercial use and commercial LPG being used in homes.The subsidy discrepancy mostly stems from a fall in the global price of LPG imported, the CAG report said.5) Electricity to villages: Govt says 98.1% electrified, but electricity supply suspectWhat Modi said: Brothers and sisters, in the coming days, I wish to concentrate on an issue. Even today, there are about eighteen thousand, five hundred such villages in our country where electric wires and poles are yet to reach. Eighteen thousand five hundred villages are deprived of the sun of independence, deprived of the light of independence, they are deprived of the rays of development of independence. But it is now the solemn pledge of the Team India of 1.25 billion countrymen that the target of providing electric poles, electric wires and electricity to these 18,500 villages would be achieved within the next 1000 days.What happened: As many as 587,569 of 597,464 villages (98.1%) in India were electrified as on June 30, 2016, which means only 9,895 do not have electricity, according to a recent report by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA).A village being declared electrified does not mean a household will get electricity, FactChecker reported in November 2015.The ministry of power defines a village (from 2004-05) as electrified if:Basic power infrastructure, such as a transformer and distribution lines, is provided in the inhabited locality as well as associated Dalit bastis (Dalit settlements, which are often excluded from village facilities), where they exist.Electricity is provided to public places such as schools, panchayat (village council) offices, health centres, dispensaries and community centres.The number of households electrified should be at least 10% of the total number of households in the village.The first threshold for electrification should be at least 50% of homes in a coverage area (i.e. the majority), according to Rahul Tongia, Fellow at Brookings Institution, and advisor to the Smart Grid Task Force of the central government.Actual electricity is important -- and that there should be no power cuts -- to achieve meaningful electrification, Tongia wrote in this column in The Hindu on October 7, 2014.In Uttar Pradesh, for instance, three of four households get electricity for less than 12 hours a day. In Jharkhand, only 2% of electrified households get electricity for 20 or more hours; 81% do not get four or more hours in the evenings, while 60% face three or more days of total blackouts every month, IndiaSpend reported in October 2015.An investigation of rural electrification data by The Hindu found that the number of villages said to be electrified in the last year is exaggerated. Their report revealed several discrepancies such as:Many villages classified as un-electrified are counted as electrified on an app GARV (launched by the power ministry to track electrification).Uninhabited villages have been marked as electrified. Villages like Panalomali, Kusadangar and Patyetapali in Odisha and Sunwara in Madhya Pradesh  all counted as electrified villages  have no people residing there.6) Social security: 127 million people enrolled for three major programmesWhat Modi said: We have laid great stress upon social security and also the welfare of the poor  and thus Prime Ministers Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Atal Pension Yojana (APY) and Prime Ministers Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) have been launched. Crores of people of our country have no social security cover.What happened: APY has been given to 2.7 million, PMSBY to 94.5 million and PMJJBY to 29.7 million citizens as on 14 June 2016, according to official data.Read | Take out Tiranga Yatras on 70th Independence Day, Modi tells BJP MPsMore recent data tabled in the Parliament indicates that 3.04 million Indians have registered under APY as on July 20, 2016.7) Rural India: Agriculture budget increased by 44%, several rural programmes launchedWhat Modi said: We need drastic changes in the agriculture sector. The cultivable land is shrinking; it is getting divided between families and pieces of land are getting smaller. The fertility and productivity of our agricultural land must increase. The farmers need water and electricity and we are working towards their availability. We have decided to pump in fifty thousand crore rupees in Pradhaan Mantri Krishi Sinchaai Yojna. How will the water reach the farms? Water will have to be saved. We have to launch a movement in our agricultural sector with the mantra of Save Water, Save Energy, and Save Fertilisers.Whats happened: Modi is right about the divide in farming land5% of farmers control 32% of Indias farmland and a large farmer in India has 45 times more land than a marginal farmer, IndiaSpend reported in May 2016.The land that can be farmed has marginally declined, from 182.5 million hectares in 2008-09 to 182 million hectares in 2012-13, mainly for non-agricultural purposes, such as urbanisation, roads, industries and housing, according to data tabled in the parliament.The agriculture budget rose 44%, from Rs 24,909 crore ($4 billion) in 2015-16 to Rs 35,984 crore ($5 billion) in 2016-17, to address growing distress in rural areas from successive monsoon failures.Finance minister Arun Jaitely announced during Budget 2016 that 2.85 million hectares would be irrigation through the flagship Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayi Yojana (PMKSY) scheme in 2016-17. He also added that the government will reorient its interventions in the farm and non-farm sectors to double the income of farmers by 2022. An Indian farmers income effectively rose 5% per year over a decade (2003-2013), IndiaSpend reported in March 2016.The budget also created a dedicated long-term irrigation fund (through the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development) with an initial corpus of Rs 20,000 crore8) One Rank One Pension for service personnel: Approved, but protests continueWhat Modi said: The issue of One Rank One Pension (OROP) has come before every government, each one has considered its proposal, and each and every government has made promises on it, but the problem is still pending to be resolved. I say to service personnel, we have accepted One Rank One Pension in principal but talks are going on with its organisations. Talks have reached at the final stage and we want that all get justice keeping in view the development of whole country. How it is implemented in view of its nitty-gritty situation, we are taking the talks forward by engaging with its stakeholders.What happened: Modi approved the OROP proposal in April 2016. It will cost the government an additional Rs 7,488 in annual pensions and Rs 10,925 crore in arrears.As many as 1.6 million pensioners were paid their first pensions through the OROP programme; Rs 2,861 crore was spent until March 31, 2016. Certain issues and anomalies have been raised by servicemen, which a government panel is considering.

A committee on social security set up at the 44{+t}{+h}Indian Labour Conference (ILC) that concluded its session here on Wednesday has suggested that maternity leave for women employees, now provided under the Maternity Benefit Act, be raised to 24 weeks from the present 12 weeks.This has come even as Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, while speaking at the conference earlier, emphasised the need to understand the constraints women staff faced in balancing their family and work responsibility, and take measures to increase the strength of women employees in the country.Ironically, there was exploitation of women workers in payment of wages in the quantum of payment when compared to men. A woman employee of a leading foreign bank in Chennai was recently asked to quit during her advanced stage of pregnancy and rejoin a few months after child birth just to avoid payment of maternity benefit and extension of leave to her.Briefing journalists on the ILC deliberations, Union Labour & Employment Minister Mallikarjun Kharge said a committee on minimum wages had suggested an increase of wage ceiling for application of Employees Provident Fund Act from Rs.6,500 a month now to Rs.10,000 or 15,000 for getting medical benefits under the Employees State Insurance Corporation. Most of the committee members wanted the ceiling for (number of) workers covered under the EPF Act to be reduced from 20 to 10.

NEW DELHI: On the lines of Jan Dhan mega rollout, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on May 9 launch social security insurance and pension schemes in Kolkata, while other ministers will unveil them in different cities."There would be simultaneous functions across various states with participations from chief ministers and cabinet ministers. It would be like Jan Dhan scheme launch so that we have maximum awareness in minimum time," department of financial services secretary Hasmukh Adhia told PTI."The enrolment for insurance and pension schemes would begin after Prime Minister launches them. However, the insurance cover would be enforced from June 1," he said.As it will be linked to bank accounts, the premium would get auto debited, Adhia said.These schemes, to be launched by Modi, are aimed at providing affordable universal access to essential social security protection in a convenient manner linked to auto-debit facility from the bank account of a subscriber, as per a finance ministry statement.These schemes were announced in the Budget by finance minister Arun Jaitley on February 28.The two insurance schemes  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY)  will provide insurance cover in case of death as well as death/disability due to an accident. The pension scheme, Atal Pension Yojana (APY), will address old age income security needs.PMSBY will offer a renewable one year accidental death-cum -disability cover of Rs 2 lakh for partial/permanent disability to all savings bank account holders in the age group of 18-70 years for a premium of Rs 12 per annum per subscriber.The scheme would be administered through Public Sector General Insurance Companies or other General Insurance companies willing to offer the product on similar terms on the choice of the bank concerned, it added.PMJJBY on the other hand will offer a renewable one year life cover of Rs 2 lakh to all savings bank account holders in the age group of 18-50 years, covering death due to any reason, for a premium of Rs 330 per annum per subscriber.The scheme would be offered or administered through LIC or other Life Insurance companies willing to offer the product on similar terms on the choice of the bank concerned.The pension scheme will focus on the unorganised sector and provide subscribers a fixed minimum pension of Rs 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 4,000 or Rs 5,000 per month starting at the age of 60 years, depending on the contribution option exercised on entering at an age between 18 and 40 years.The period of contribution by any subscriber under APY would be 20 years or more.The fixed minimum pension would be guaranteed by the government.

The web of social security woven by the Modi government through various schemes since it swept to office in 2014 has a new strand  pension coverage for workers in the informal sector.The Pradhan Mantri Shram-Yogi Maandhan, unveiled in the interim Budget, aims to target 10 crore labourers in the informal sector over the next five years, making it one of the largest pension schemes worldwide.Half of Indias GDP comes from the sweat and toil of 42 crore workers in the unorganised sector working as street vendors, rickshawpullers, construction workers, ragpickers, agricultural workers, beedi workers, handloom, leather and in numerous other similar occupations, the FM said in his speech. We must provide them comprehensive social security for their old age.The Shram-Yogi Maandhan will cover those with monthly income of up to Rs 15,000, providing an assured monthly pension of Rs 3,000 after the age of 60 years. Those joining it at 29 years will have to make monthly contributions of Rs 100 per month till they are 60 while those subscribing to the scheme at 18 years will have to shell out Rs 55 per month. Government will deposit a matching share in the pension account of the worker every month.The scheme caps the raft of social security measures including health coverage under Ayushman Bharat and life and disability coverage under PM Jeeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and PM Suraksha Bima Yojana. Apart from insurance, government has cast the net wide for financial inclusion via Jan Dhan. It has also raised minimum wages for all labourers by 42% while the ceiling on Employees State Insurance scheme has been hiked from Rs 15,000 to Rs 21,000 per month. Minimum pension for workers under Employees Provident Fund is pegged at Rs 1,000 a month; in the event of death of a worker, sum paid by EPFO has been raised to Rs 6 lakh from the existing Rs 2.5 lakh. For anganwadi and Asha yojana workers, the honorarium has been raised by about 50%.

Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu will be launching the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Atal Pension Yojana insurance and pension schemes in the city on Saturday. Union Minister of Defence Manohar Parrikar and others will also be participating in the programme.Explaining the benefits of the PMSBY and PMJJBY insurance schemes, Andhra Bank Deputy General Manager G.S.V Krishna Rao said apart from Jan Dhan account holders all the savings accounts holders of the bank can enrol for the schemes.For the PMSBY, people aged from 18 to 50 years are eligible and for an annual premium of Rs.330, they would be getting an insurance coverage of Rs.2 lakh. Likewise for the PMJJBY scheme, people aged from 18 to 70 years are eligible and for an annual premium of Rs.12, an accidental coverage of Rs.2 lakh would be provided. In case of any physical disability due to accidents, Rs.1 lakh coverage would be provided.Enrolment for the schemes commenced from May 1 and already, 4288 opted for PMJJBY and 16939 for PMSBY in Krishna district. Twenty two opted for Atal Pension Yojana and we have set a target of completing nearly 40,000 enrolments before May 9, said Mr. Rao here on Thursday.

Indias banks have taken the governments maxim of Sab Ka Sath, Sab Ka Vikas as their own: They have used technology and ingenuity to bring millions of people into the banking fold, a key step towards achieving of a range of development objectives such as the efficient transfer of benefits and the propagation of small businesses.The next step is crucial: Boosting financial literacy among a fast-growing population of new clients, partly by setting up financial literacy centres and extending the highly successful Business Correspondents (BC) model.Since opening brick and mortar branches is not viable in small villages, the Reserve Bank of India provided a major breakthrough in 2006 by allowing banks to set up the BC model. This low-cost model of delivering banking products has matured over the years and has gained the confidence of customers. Over 230 million bank accounts have been opened by the BCs of all banks and transactions volume in the current year is expected to cross Rs 1,20,000 crore.The launch of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) in August 2014 provided a big boost to the banks financial inclusion drive. Over 190 million PMJDY accounts have been opened so far, and in that, SBI is the major player with a 24% share. Under the PMJDY, the mandate is not restricted to opening accounts, the aim is to provide easier accessibility through issuing RuPay Cards, which, incidentally, carry an inbuilt accident insurance cover of Rs 1 lakh. Providing small-value overdrafts based on satisfactory conduct of account, availability of low-cost life insurance (Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana) and accident insurance (Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana) and pension scheme (Atal Pension Yojana) are also part of the PMJDY initiative.A particularly encouraging development is the reduction in zero balance accounts to just under a third; usage of accounts is also increasing. For a mission of this size, all the stakeholders need to work together  banks, insurers, state governments, National Payments Corporation of India, State-Level Bankers Committees, Lead Banks and the Unique Identification Authority of India, apart from the RBI and the government. One of the big achievements of the PMJDY is that it has connected strongly with the masses and has convinced people of the need of maintaining a bank account. The demand side has been addressed to a large extent and all steps are underway to improve supply side by scaling up banking outlets and BCs in uncovered locations. The ultimate aim is to provide banking services as close as possible to the customers. For this purpose the banking network of branches and BCs is being expanded to cover all sub-service areas; the recent move of the government to provide a Financial Inclusion Fund to support the banks to instal very small aperture terminals for providing Internet connectivity in uncovered areas is a welcome step. The banks are also installing micro-ATMs at BC outlets to facilitate interoperable transactions by using debit cards.Direct benefit transfers (DBTs) for liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) have been implemented successfully. DBT for 26 schemes is already functional and the government intends to expand DBT coverage to include fertilizer and food subsidy in the next phase, which will enable a higher flow of funds in the accounts and encourage account holders to save. We also expect that the government will release adequate remuneration to the banks for handling the DBT work. This will add strength to the BC model and make it more sustainable for banks and BCs.We also need to keep up the effort to provide financial literacy to newly acquired customers. All products are enabled through technology and providing adequate information to a large pool of customers is a big challenge. Banks alone may not be able to handle this, other stakeholders need to pitch in as well. Here, Financial Literacy Centres can play an important role to carry forward this message. Further, BCs too need to be trained and encouraged to communicate well and take care of the banking needs of the population they serve. Their services should be used not only for account opening, but also for recovery and follow-up of loans by providing requisite training and enablement. This will improve their acceptability and also enable them to earn higher remuneration. Around 20% of PMJDY accounts opened by SBI pertain to minors on account of opening of scholarship accounts of students. Our bank has attempted to reach out to the youngsters by holding nearly 5,000 quiz contests for them.With focus on Mudra loans, many small entrepreneurs, micro enterprises, artisans and other PMJDY customers have started availing of credit facility from banks. Since all such data is captured by credit bureaus, it becomes all the more necessary to communicate and apprise such customers about the utility and benefits of timely repayment of loans so that their track record is not adversely impacted due to their ignorance.Going forward, I see more competition emerging in this segment with the entry of payment and small banks. Ultimately, it will be the efficiency of entities which determines sustainability of any business model. The recent RBI report on Mid-term Path on Financial Inclusion truly captures the market scenario, emerging opportunities and challenges. All banking players need to build on their existing strengths and capabilities to deliver optimally to the customers, who are at the centre of what we do.Arundhati Bhattacharya is chairperson, State Bank of IndiaThe views expressed are personal

BHUBANESHWAR: In a bid to strengthen healthcare facilities for workers, the Centre has decided to upgrade nine Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) dispensaries in the State as full-fledged six bedded hospitals.Speaking at the final day of National Conference on Labour, Union Minister for Labour and Employment Bandaru Dattatreya said the medical facilities at Barang, Jagatpur, Choudwar, Jharsuguda, Barbil, Rourkela, Rajgangpur, Hirakud and the one here at Sahid Nagar will be upgraded with a central assistance of Rs 100 crore.The Minister however made it clear that there is no proposal for any ESIC Medical College in the State. "Instead, a 500-bed super-specialty hospital will be setup in Bhubaneswar, Dattatreya said. The then Union Minister for Labour and Employment Oscar Fernandes on March 2, 2014 had laid the foundation stone for an ESIC Medical College and Hospital here.On bonded labour, Dattatreya said, if a person or a firm employs a man as bonded labour, fine of Rs one lakh will be imposed and in case of a woman or child the fine amount will be Rs two lakh. Rs 3 lakh would be charged if someone employs a transgender as a bonded labour, he said.The Union Minister announced that minimum wages for unskilled labour will be hiked 42 percent across all sectors. The minimum wage of an agricultural labourer will now be Rs 300. All construction workers will be provided ESIC and Employees Provident Fund (EPF) facilities.The minister came up with a proposal for the State Governments to conduct a fresh survey of skilled and unskilled labourers for whom the Centre would issue U-WIN smart cards. Migrant labourers will be benefited most from the smart cards using which they can avail ESIC and EPFO facilities anywhere they work in the country, Dattatreya said.He announced a slew of other measures aimed at labour welfare and employment generation. "Employment exchanges have been replaced with model career centres (MCCs) which is acting as an easy interface between job-seekers and potential employers. So far, 76 employment exhchanges have been taken over by 100 MCCs across the country," he said.The MCCs have already enrolled 3.4 crore job-seekers, eight lakh employers and skill providers. In Odisha, six MCCs will come up at Bhubaneswar, Sambalpur, Dhenkanal, Rourkela, Cuttack and Gajapati soon, the minister said adding that plans are afoot to organise one job fair in every six months in each district.

Perhaps the most significant development since the November 8 announcement of demonetisation is the shift in the legitimising narrative around the note ban. What was touted as a surgical strike on black money, fake currency and terror funding has now become a radical reform to transform India into a cashless economy. A series of measures, not least a high-decibel advertising campaign, are already in place to build national consensus in favour of this transformation.Cashless Ki BaatIt was Prime Minister Narendra Modis Mann Ki Baat of November 27 that officially signalled this narrative switch. In a nuanced execution of a sophisticated communication strategy, Mr. Modi drew on the equivalence, in the Hindu imaginary, between Swachh and purity, and purity and virtue, to give a moral colouring to the binary of cash/cashless.India is an economy where 90 per cent of all transactions are in cash. This is due to the large informal sector, which employs 90 per cent of the workforce. The overwhelming majority of them are not hoarders of black money. And yet, India cannot become a cashless society unless its mammoth informal sector transitions to digital payments.Canny communicator that he is, Mr. Modi sought to pre-emptively quell the resistance such a forced transition would evoke by presenting the campaign for a cashless India as a campaign against black money and corruption. By dissolving the distinction between legal cash and black money, he cleared the ground for the treatment of all cash as potentially black unless proven white.In other words, the informal sector is not an unintended casualty of demonetisation but the intended target. As the Reserve Bank of India Governor has clarified, the government was fully cognisant of the consequences of its move, and it was not at all an ill-planned operation, as some have suggested. As it happens, cash is the most powerful instrument of financial inclusion. Anyone can access it directly, without depending on rent-seeking technological or financial intermediaries. Once you have it, you could spend it whenever, wherever, and in whatever quantity you want to, without anyone being able to track you doing it. These are basic freedoms and rights that we take for granted. It is because these freedoms matter that there is resistance to their loss  a loss that is a given in a cashless society.There was thus a logical need for a phase one of demonetisation where the idea that it was about black money could be firmly planted in public memory. In phase two, which would kick in after black money and national pride have been inserted into the demonetisation discourse, cashless would be equated with clean, and cash with dirt and the suspicion of dirty or black money.In the cashless utopia that India is set to become, anyone who insists on using cash, a signifier of dirt, has a dirty mind, and is thus a suspect  a possible beneficiary of black money and the vices associated with it. Indeed, Mr. Modi concluded his Mann Ki Baat by explicitly equating Swach Bharat with a cashless (or less-cash) Bharat, as he proclaimed, Swachh Tan, Swachh Mann, Swachh Bharat, Mera Parichay.Why cashless?But what explains this urgent drive towards a cashless society? One way to answer this is to consider the likely outcomes of a cashless society, and read back from it the intent behind such a move.One immediate outcome of a cashless India would be a sharp rise in indirect taxes compliance. Traders, small businesses, shopkeepers, and consumers routinely use cash as a means to avoid paying service tax, sales tax, VAT, and any number of indirect taxes and fees. This mindset needs to change if the imminent Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime is to actually work. Brutally enforcing a cashless payments system  by sucking out 86 per cent of paper money and letting people flounder for a period in a condition of acute paper money scarcity  is perhaps the quickest means way to get there.Apart from the state, another big beneficiary of a cashless India is finance capital. At present, Indias low-income households access credit through informal systems  be it a pawn broker or employer or a relative with cash savings.This informality has been partially dented with the arrival of self-help groups that can access formal credit. But given Indias population, both the debt and the savings of the working classes constitute an enormous market that global finance has so far been unable to access.Forcing them to shift to cashless payment platforms instantly formalises this world of informality. As the Prime Minister himself has reiterated many times, the mass opening of bank accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana is a means towards financial inclusion, but in reverse: it channels personal income (wages/cash transfers) to financial markets via insurance and pension schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana. Thanks to forced deposits, unlike cash in a piggy bank or a plastic pouch, money in Jan-Dhan accounts can serve as a fresh source of liquidity for financial institutions.The third beneficiary is the digital sector, which enjoys a complex but symbiotic relationship with finance capital. Digital payment apps and e-wallet companies have enjoyed record downloads and deposits post-November 8. Their massive ad spends were possible courtesy the financial institutions that have invested in these finance technology (fintech) businesses.Finally, in a global scenario of debt-soaked slowdown, extreme income inequality, and stagnating real wages, capital accumulation is only possible through a mechanism that systematically administers an upward redistribution of income  from the 99 per cent to the 1 per cent. While an indirect tax regime like the GST would accomplish this objective for the state, the integration of personal savings into the global debt economy would manage the same for finance capital. The primary requirement in both cases is to capture the circuits of capital and commodity circulation that lie beyond their respective domains of taxation and credit  that is, the entire cash economy. The drive towards a cashless society is hence the lynchpin for securing the supremacy of the state-finance nexus.The definition of normalFrom businesses to analysts to ordinary citizens, everyone in India is waiting for life to return to normal. But what would constitute this normal? An easy definition for most people would be: no long queues at ATMs. But the queues are long not only because there are too many people and too little cash. They are long also because there is a limit on how much cash you can withdraw at a time, forcing people to queue up multiple times at different locations. A proper return to the pre-demonetisation normal therefore entails something more: removal of any ceiling on cash withdrawals.Such a definition of normal would be valid if the reason for demonetisation was either destruction of black money or fake currency, or even a recapitalisation of banks  all of which has either already happened or no longer matter. Assuming you are an honest citizen who uses cash but not black money, you could legitimately expect to go back to the pre-currency ban status quo, with one difference: instead of old notes, you use new ones, which should soon be available in numbers proportionate to demand.But everything that the Prime Minister has said and done so far suggests that there may not be a return to this old normal. No matter how many currency notes are reportedly printed, how many ATMs are recalibrated, how many livelihoods affected in the informal sector, the ceiling on cash withdrawals may not be withdrawn any time soon  and no date has been indicated so far. The reason is simple: the demonetisation drive is not so much about curbing black money as it is about combating cash. The only way this could change is through extreme political pressure.Not surprisingly, the banking sector is firmly behind the Prime Minister on demonetisation. So is the IT sector. Barring a few squeaks about the impact on growth, the corporate sector, too, is behind Mr. Modi. The only constituency that may not be, is the one targeted by demonetisation: the cash-dependent informal sector, which has taken a hit, and will continue to do so unless and until they switch en masse to digital payment platforms  which is what the government is expecting them to do.While the political ramifications are a different story, one may view Mr. Modis push for a cashless India as the culmination of the economic logic of liberalisation unleashed by Manmohan Singh in 1991. From this ideological vantage point, a rapid transition to a cashless economy  even if it means not-so-subtle coercion  makes perfect sense.sampath.g@thehindu.co.inThe only constituency that may not be firmly behind Mr. Modi is the one targeted by demonetisation: the cash-dependent informal sector

The NDA government has decided to relegate its ambitious labour reforms to the back burner in this session, and push for pro-labour legislation instead.The Lok Sabha will take up the Payment of Bonus (Amendment) Bill, which envisages extending bonus payments to more workers, next week. The bill seeks to raise the wage ceiling for procuring a bonus to Rs 21,000 per month from the existing Rs 10,000, and also increase the maximum amount of bonus under the legislation to Rs 7,500 from Rs 3,500.Raising the wage and bonus calculation ceilings was one of the assurances given by the Centre to 10 central trade unions, after they went on a one-day strike on September 2 this year.Due to its strong pro-labour credentials, ministry officials contend that the bonus amendment bill is the only one that can be pushed through in the current session of Parliament. It is, however, unlikely to be placed before the Rajya Sabha in the ongoing session.Payment of bonus to industrial employees is mandatory under the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965. It stipulates that any employee earning up to Rs 10,000 per month has to be paid a bonus at a minimum rate of 8.33%. With the amendment to the Act, workers earning up to Rs 21,000 (basic plus DA) a month will be eligible for the bonus.Sources said the government seems to have shelved plans to introduce other labour reform legislations, which the trade unions had vociferously opposed due to their alleged pro-industry nature. These included a new wage and industrial relations code, a child labour bill and a small factories act.While the small factories bill proposes to keep units employing less than 40 workers out of the purview of 14 labour laws, including the Employees Provident Fund Act, the Employees State Insurance Act and the Industrial Dispute Act, the code on industrial relations will make it easier for companies to sack up to 300 employees without the governments permission.The child labour bill, on the other hand, proposes that children below fourteen years may only be allowed to work in enterprises owned by their own families.

a) Did the budget meet your expectations? If yes, why? If no, why?The farmers have been given their due in this budget, which for me is the best part. Various education-related initiatives have been announced. This budget does not offer the middle class anything with no changes in the tax slabs from last year. The budget has much to offer to the poor people and even investors but nothing much to the middle class. Every government at the Centre has ignored the middle class despite the fact that this class is honestly paying its taxes. No politician has the guts to touch the taxable income of agriculture  because it is money-spinning for politicians and the business class  or putting the burden of taxes on industrialists because they too help them win elections. We should all press the NOTA button in the next election.b) Whats the Aha factor of the budget?The benefit announced for farmers and also the initiatives announced for the education sector.c) What could the FM have done that he didnt?Nothing has been announced for homemakers. The finance minister could have announcedtax deduction in kitchen-related items that would have made us happy. Homemakers feel left out in this budget.d) Is this a budget keeping elections in mind? If yes, why? If no, why?Certainly the budget has been made keeping elections in mind, otherwise poor and industry-centric initiatives would not have been announced.a) Did the budget meet your expectations? If yes, why? If no, why?Yes, it will boost the footfall of tourists as the government has taken steps to promote various destinations under the Prasad (pilgrimage rejuvenation and spirituality augmentation drive) scheme. More than a dozen different circuits have been identified for development, such as North-East India Circuit, Buddhist Circuit, Himalayan Circuit, Coastal Circuit, Krishna Circuit, Desert Circuit, Tribal Circuit, Eco Circuit, Wildlife Circuit, Rural Circuit, Spiritual Circuit, Ramayana Circuit and Heritage Circuit. Also most of the tourist cities  such as Ajmer, Amritsar, Amravati, Dwarka, Gaya, Kamakhya, Kanchipuram, Mathura, Patna, Puri, Varanasi and Velankanni  have been identified for development.b) Whats the Aha factor of the budget?Allocation of Rs 1,840.77 crore to the tourism ministry in the budget for the next fiscal, including Rs 959.91 crore for the integrated development of tourist circuits around specific themes (Swadesh Darshan scheme).c) What could the FM have done that he didnt?Nothing as suchd) Is this a budget keeping elections in mind? If yes, why? If no, why?No , I dont think so. But we also can say that in some context it is far away from reality and more political in nature.a) Did the budget meet your expectations? If yes, why? If no, why?No. The budget is disappointing because for our sector (real estate) there is nothing. Again, from a personal point of view, there is no change in the income tax slab. This should have been increased. We were expecting some tax relief but it didn't come aboutb) Whats the Aha factor of the budget?The best thing is that though real estate has been left untouched, infrastructure spending has been considerably increased, be it in railways or building hospitals. A major boost has been given to the health sector that will go a long way in improving the health care system.c) What could the FM have done that he didnt?The finance minister should have given a thrust to the real estate sector which he missed. The real estate sector's contribution to the GDP is around 6-8 per cent. Also, there are around 300 ancillary industries which are directly related to the real estate sector. If we take into account the cumulative effect of the real estate sector on the GDP, it is around 15-20 per cent. All these have been ignored by the finance minister.d) Is this a budget keeping elections in mind? If yes, why? If no, why?I cannot say anything on this as I represent the industry. But, surely, this is not a populist budget.a) Did the budget meet your expectations? If yes, why? If no, why?Yes it is a pro-farmer budget and the focus is on rural growth. Special initiative is going to be taken for development of the existing markets and also equipping them with electronic trading facility. These steps will help the farmers in a big way as they will get a good price for their produce. The decision to set up mega food parks will benefit farmers because these parks will consume perishable items and farmers will have an assured option of supplying their horticulture produce to the units that will come in these parks.b) Whats the Aha factor of the budget?Steps like giving kisan credit card to those in the animal husbandry and fisheries sector.c) What could the FM have done that he didnt?The finance minister should have put some more money in the hands of the salaried class by tinkering the taxable income slab. More money in the hands of the people will lead to increase in demand, which in turn will benefit both farmers and industrialists.d) Is this a budget keeping elections in mind? If yes, why? If no, why?No, this is not an election budget. While offering sops to poor people and farmers, the budget has adhered to fiscal discipline which is good for the future of the economy.a) Did the budget meet your expectations? If yes, why? If no, why?The budget is according to the peoples expectations. It takes care of the farmers, taking care of their health with the insurance scheme by ensuring protection to around 50 crore people. It is historic because post-Independence, no such decision was taken. The budget takes care of education and also emphasises digitisation. And with 1.5 lakh Arogya centres, wellness centres and 24 medical colleges with the health protection scheme, it will nearly achieve health for all. Stress has also been laid on sanitation measures by announcing projects for making the Ganga clean. Earlier, women in rural areas were dependent on cow-dung cakes for cooking but the announcement of providing them LPG connection is also appreciable. Investors working in agriculture sector have also been promised incentives. All this will result in reducing migration from villages.b) Whats the Aha factor of the budget?The aha factor of the budget is that it is taking care of health protection of 50 crore poor people by giving them insurance of Rs 5 lakh per family.c) What could the FM have done that he didnt?Every aspect has been taken care of in this budget.d) Is this a budget keeping elections in mind? If yes, why? If no, why?I dont know whether it is made thinking of polls in mind or not, but it is certainly pro-people.a) Did the budget meet your expectations? If yes, why? If no, why?This budget has met my expectations to a very considerable extent. There is a special focus on rural and agro-based economy and on farmers income generation. Also, there is focus on infrastructure, housing schemes and health. Ayushman Bharat programme for universal healthcare is the special feature. However, there are other sections of society which have been untouched in this budget. For example, women have not been given significance. Simply raising the limit of deduction for health insurance premium and medical expenditure for senior citizens wont help much.b) Whats the Aha factor of the budget?Could not spot any aha factor for the common people except the emphasis given to farmers and the rural economy. We were thinking of agro-based initiatives from the government as it has promised for the same earlier. The aha factor is something that should surprise me but this budget has not surprised me at all. We expected these announcements.c) What could the FM have done that he didnt?Senior citizens concerns should have been comprehensively addressed but this has not been done in this budget. Some relief has been given to salaried persons though.d) Is this a budget keeping elections in mind? If yes, why? If no, why?The budget has a long-term vision of growth. So, definitely it is not a populist budget.a) Did the budget meet your expectations? If yes, why? If no, why?Yes, the budget met our expectation to some extent for students and youths. The finance minister talks about employment generation and by 2022 every block with more than 50 per cent ST population will have Ekalvya schools on a par with Navodaya Vidyalayas. The government will identify 1,000 BTech students each year and provide them facilities to do PhDs in IITs and IISc.b) Whats the Aha factor of the budget?The customs duty on certain products, such as mobile phones and televisions, has been increased to strengthen Make in India. The government will contribute 12 per cent of the wages of new employees in the Employees Provident Fund in all sectors for the next three years  it really looks employee-centric.c) What could the finance minister have done that he didnt?The finance minister could have done more for students and more for Bihars education; that disappointed me. There could be more educational institutes, he could have focused on that but he didnt.d) Is this a budget keeping elections in mind? If yes, why? If no, why?Yes, the budget is planned keeping polls in mind, because he promised a lot for farmers and the majority belong to rural sectors. There is not any increase in personal tax  that was planned keeping in mind that polls are around the corner.a) Did the budget meet your expectations? If yes, why? If no, why?Yes, because this is budget for all, focusing on agriculture, rural economy, inclusive health, infrastructure and also for micro, small & medium enterprises (MSMEs). This budget is pursuing economic reforms and also doing course-correction specially in the agriculture and health sectors. Reducing the tax of MSME from 30 to 25 per cent and also raising the revenue limit from Rs 50 crore to Rs 250 crore is historic and it will create another benchmark for the development of the economy.b) Whats the Aha factor of the budget?Focus on creating employment by supporting various sectors and overall by providing health security to 10 crore families with Rs 5 lakh per annum health insurance. Linking fisheries and animal husbandry farmers to kisan credit card and agriculture exposure to Rs 11 lakh crore.c) What could the FM have done that he didnt?He should have extended more relief to individuals and the salaried class income-tax payer and created more openings in the area of private sector investments.d) Is this a budget keeping elections in mind? If yes, why? If no, why?No, this budget is in continuation of the reforms going on for the last four budgets and takes bold initiative in almost all sectors for long-term benefits. Controlling the fiscal deficit to 3.3 per cent for the next financial year is a bold step.Compiled by Sanjeev Kumar Verma, Roshan Kumar, Nishant Sinha and Shuchismita Chakraborty

Nearly two crore jobs were created in 16 months to December 2018, according to the payroll data of the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC).The ESIC data is one of the payroll numbers released by the Central Statistics Office (CSO) in its reports based on people joining various social security schemes run by Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and Pension Fund Regulatory Development Authority (PFRDA).The ESIC provides health insurance and medical services to its insured person, covering all those establishment which have 20 or more workers and all those employees whose monthly wages are up to Rs. 21,000.During the period from September 2017 and December 2018, as many as 1.96 crore new subscribers joined the scheme.Similarly, the EPFO data showed that employment generation in the formal sector almost trebled to touch a 16-month high of 7.16 lakh in December 2018, compared to 2.37 lakh in the year-ago month. It indicated that nearly 72.32 lakh new subscribers were added to social security schemes of the EPFO from September 2017 to December 2018. The EPFO covers all those firms that have 20 or more employees. Workers, whose basic wages are up to Rs. 15,000 per month at the time of joining the job, are mandatorily covered under the scheme.New NPS numbersThe estimated number of new NPS (National Pension Scheme) subscribers during the period  September 2017 to December 2018  is 9,66,381. The NPS covers central and State government employees while others can voluntarily subscribes to it.The report gives different perspectives on the levels of employment in the formal sector and does not measure employment at a holistic level, the report said.Nearly 72.32 lakh new subscribers were added to social security schemes of EPFO

VISAKHAPATNAM: The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Visakhapatnam Zone, has organised an interactive session with Employees State Insurance (ESI) and Provident Fund officials on Friday.B Ramakoti , the Joint director of sub-regional office, Employees State Insurance Corporation, on the occasion announced that a 500-bed hospital is mooted near Sheelanagar for the benefit of the working class community covered under the ESI act.Addressing the gathering, the JD explained about the latest amendments in the ESI Act, Penal provisions,Smart card-Pehchaan, medical benefits and other schemes.Chairman of CII Vizag Zone V Murali Krishna said that there are many ESIC and EPF schemes which needs to be capitalised by the industries.

In line with his governments aim of simplifying labour laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday unveil a number of schemes to reduce hassles for employees and employers and create a conducive environment for business.According to labour ministry officials some of the schemes that will be launched at the event titled Deen Dayal Upadhyay Shrameva Jayate include Universal Account Number (UAN) facility for Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) subscribers, a new labour inspection scheme and a unified web portal to check labour law- compliances.The unified web portal aims at making compliance process easier for industry and will see a common window for compliances of 16 central labour laws. The portal will also enhance transparency in labour inspections based on key performance indices and provide an effective grievance redressal system.The new inspections scheme envisages doing away with the discretionary power of inspectors and any decision on inspections will be taken only after the proposed central analysis and intelligence unit analyses the compliance reports by the employers. Also each inspector will have to submit his report online within three days, making the process transparent and accountable.Through UAN, employees will no longer have to apply for transfer of provident fund (PF) accounts claim, while switching job anywhere in the country, reducing time in funds transfer.The event is likely to see convergence of three schemes for the unorganised sector  Rashtriya Swastha Bima Yojana, Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana and Indira Gandhi National Old Pension Scheme.

Doing business in India has become significantly easier on the back of the government decisions including a bankruptcy law and other reforms, a World Bank report said on Tuesday.India has moved 30 places up from its previous ranking of the 130, the ease of doing business report showed, adding that eight reforms were helping businesses in 2016/17.Here are a few observations of the report:1) India stands out this year as one of the 10 economies that improved the most in the areas measured by Doing Business. With eight reforms making it easier to do business in 2016/17, India was the only economy in South Asia to join the list. El Salvador, Malawi, Nigeria and Thailand are also part of the top 10 improvers.2) Within South Asia, India has the highest score (80) for protecting minority investors compared to Afghanistans score of 10.3) India made obtaining a building permit faster by implementing an online Single Window System for the approval of building plans.4) India streamlined the business incorporation process by introducing the SPICe form (INC-32) that which combined the application for the Permanent Account Number (PAN) and the Tax Account Number (TAN) into a single submission.5) Following improvements to the online system in 2016, the time needed to complete the applications for Employees Provident Fund Organization and the Employees State Insurance Corporation decreased. The joint application for the Mumbai Value Added Tax and the Profession Tax also was fully implemented in January 2017.6) India strengthened access to credit by amending the rules on priority of secured creditors outside reorganization proceedings and adopting a new insolvency and bankruptcy code that introduced a reorganization procedure for corporate debtors.7) In trading across borders, India reduced border compliance time by improving infrastructure at the Nhava Sheva Port in Mumbai. Export and import border compliance costs were also reduced in both Delhi and Mumbai after merchant overtime fees were abolished.8) India introduced the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards (ICDS) in 2016 to standardize the methods of computing taxable income and other tax accounting standards. Data gathering became more automated in India due to the use of modern enterprise resource planning (ERP) software.

BHUBANESWAR: In a bid to strengthen healthcare facilities for workers, the Centre has decided to upgrade nine Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) dispensaries in Odisha into full-fledged six-bed hospitals.Speaking on the final day of National Conference on Labour, Union Minister for Labour and Employment Bandaru Dattatreya said the medical facilities at Barang, Jagatpur, Choudwar, Jharsuguda, Barbil, Rourkela, Rajgangpur, Hirakud and Sahid Nagar in the Capital City will be upgraded with a Central assistance of Rs 100 crore.The Minister, however, made it clear that there is no proposal for any ESIC Medical College in the State. Instead, a 500-bed super-specialty hospital will be set up in Bhubaneswar, Dattatreya said.On March 2, 2014, the then Union Minister for Labour and Employment Oscar Fernandes had laid foundation stone for an ESIC Medical College and Hospital here.Earlier on Tuesday, Dattatreya had said auto and cycle-rickshaw drivers and Anganwadi and ASHA workers will get benefits of ESIC in a phased manner. All construction workers will be provided ESIC and Employees Provident Fund (EPF) facilities, he said.Dattatreya said if an individual or a firm employs a man as bonded labourer, fine of Rs one lakh will be imposed and in case of a woman or child, the fine amount will be Rs two lakh. This apart, Rs 3 lakh would be charged if someone employs a transgender as a bonded labourer, he said.The Union Minister announced that minimum wages for unskilled labour will be hiked by 42 per cent across all sectors. The minimum wage of an agricultural labourer will now be Rs 300.Dattatreya came up with a proposal for the State Governments to conduct a fresh survey of skilled and unskilled labourers for whom the Centre would issue U-WIN smart cards. Migrant labourers will be benefited most from the smart cards through which they can avail ESIC and EPFO facilities anywhere in the country, he said.The Union Minister announced a slew of other measures aimed at labour welfare and employment generation. Employment exchanges have been replaced with model career centres (MCCs) which are acting as an easy interface between job seekers and potential employers. So far, 76 employment exchanges have been taken over by 100 MCCs across the country, he said. The MCCs have already enrolled 3.4 crore job seekers, eight lakh employers and skill providers. In Odisha, six MCCs will come up at Bhubaneswar, Sambalpur, Dhenkanal, Rourkela, Cuttack and Gajapati soon, the Minister said and added that plans are afoot to organise one job fair in every six months in each district.

US should shed rigid standBy Uttam Gupta, Dec 5, 2015: 1:56 ISTIn a just concluded meeting of the Trade Policy Forum, United States Trade Representative (USTR) Mic-hael Froman, emphatically rejected Indias request for signing a Social Security Agreement (SSA), nick named totalisation pact.The US argued that, India did not meet the legislative requirement of minimum social security net (SSN) for 50 per cent of its population. When Commerce Minister Nirmala Sitharaman drew his attention to the Atal Pension Yojna, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana in addition to Employees Provident Fund Organisation, the US officials reaction was that being non-mandatory, those schemes did not qualify for social security.The USTR opined that he is open to discussing new social security schemes that India may launch which could make it eligible for the SSA. However, this is of no use so long as the condition of mandatory coverage remains. In a country of Indias size where 25-30 per cent of people live below poverty line and millions are unemployed, a guaranteed state support can lead to a financial disaster.Indias contention that it had concluded successful SSAs with a number of other countries such as Canada, France and Germany which also have similar pacts with the US also failed to make an impact on US officials. The latter demonstrated a typical syndrome of take it or leave it.What is Indias interest in signing SSA with the US? What is the connection between SSA and India having a SSN? Why is the US insisting on SSN as a pre-requisite  that too mandatory - for signing the deal? Is the US stance justified?Under the US law, all professionals/ employees working therein are required to pay taxes (typically at about 15 per cent of their salary) towards social security  the largest social welfare program-me in the US, accounting for 37 per cent of government expenditure and 7 per cent of the GDP. However, to avail of be-nefits (or refunds), they must complete 10 years of mandatory contributions.The Indian IT companies send their employees under H-1B visa (given only for six years) on project related short-term assignments. Since their stay in the US is normally for three to six years, their contributions to social security are forfeited as they do not comply with the condition. The companies are paying $4 billion annually in such taxes, having already sunk $ 25 billion in last one decade.This is unfair and discriminatory as the US does not give back to employees their own money which the latter contribute in the hope that this will be useful to them when they age (this indeed is the raison dtre behind the concept of social security). Simply because a job is outsourced to a person who is not a US citizen, does not change the underlying fundamentals.The genesis of the problem lies in the US administration imposing an artificial time ceiling (read 10 years) for the purpose of availing refund. The facility of refund should be available irrespective of the number of years an employee has made the contribution. During negotiations with Indian authorities in the past, the US had brought this idea to the table but later retracted.The anomaly can addressed if America signs SSA with India. Under it, Indian workers going to the US on H1B visa will be exempt from contributing to social security as they are not eligible for refunds. The arrangement will be reciprocal in as much as US professionals working for short duration in India will also be entitled to refund of deductions made from their salaries here.True, the number of US professionals working in India is negligible when compared to Indian workers in US. But, this should not come in the way of applying the principle which cannot be constrained by the number of potential beneficiaries on either side. Even so, with the Indian economy moving on a fast growth trajectory, the number of US workmen in India will only increase leading to a more balanced scenario.Extraneous issuesThe requirement of 50 per cent of Indias population to be under SSN (insisted by the US) is extraneous to the issue at hand. What is relevant is whether the employees who move to the US are covered by SSN in India or not? For instance, if they are contributing to the provident fund, that should suffice. Once the EPFO issues a certificate of coverage, that will be a good basis for exempting them from social security tax in US.Is the rest of the population covered under SSN? Is such cover mandatory or voluntary? These questions are irrelevant and should not have been brought to the table. Yet, the US has flagged these purportedly to cling to its unjust stance. And, India by acquiescing in  walking extra mile to argue that it is striving to meet those requirements  is getting trapped.The Indian government should change its strategy. It should delink signing of SSA from the overall national coverage under SSN and only harp on whether employees Indian companies move to US for short-term work are under SSN or not.It should impress upon the US authorities that there is no logic in their holding back contributions by the Indian employees who cannot stay there permanently to avail of the refunds. It should highlight the bigger gains that will flow by increasing trade and investment and boost to the US economy by removing this major irritant.The US should shed its intransigence and quickly move in to sign SSA with India which will go a long way in unleashing the potential and help the two countries to increase trade from current about $100 billion to $500 billion in the next five years.(The writer is a New Delhi-based policy analyst)

Narendra Modi in ParliamentPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the government is setting up one stop centres to provide assistance, legal advice and psychological counselling to women who face violence or abuse. In his International Womens Day statement issued on Sunday morning, Modi said we must walk shoulder-to-shoulder to end all forms of discrimination or injustice against women and added that our heads hang in shame when we hear of instances of crime against women.Through various schemes & initiatives, our Government remains fully committed to bringing a positive change in the lives of women.  Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) March 8, 2015I salute the indomitable courage & outstanding achievements of women on International Womens Day. http://t.co/pJP9ufxgsm  Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) March 8, 2015Today, we renew our pledge to make women an equal and integral part of our development journey. My government has initiated several measures aimed at bringing about a positive change in the lives of women. That is central to our vision of India`s progress and a life of dignity and opportunity for all our citizens, Modi said.Adding that the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao Yojana seeks to usher in a paradigm shift in attitudes towards the girl child and places emphasis on educating the girl child, the PM said that the Sukanya Samruddhi Yojana will provide support for marriage and education of young women. Mudra Bank will help thousands of women achieve financial independence.The Union Budget, which has been presented recently, unveils broadbased social security schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana. These will benefit women in a big way, he added.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App

I-Day planPatna: A meeting of administrative and police officials was held at the collectorate on Tuesday in which the officers discussed the preparedness for Independence Day celebrations at Gandhi Maidan.It was attended by district magistrate Abhay Kumar Singh, inspector-general of police Kundan Krishnan, deputy inspector-general of police (central range) Shalin and senior superintendent of police Vikas Vaibhav. The work of barricading at Gandhi Maidan would be completed by August 11. The officers also decided to close the bookings of the Maidan for commercial use from August 1.Anant casePatna: The in-charge court of judicial magistrate Anant Kumar on Tuesday issued a production warrant against JDU MLA Anant Singh in connection with the extortion case. The magistrate directed the issuance of a production warrant against on July 13. The court also directed the Beur jail superintendent to produce Anant on July 20. SK Puri police lodged an FIR against three named persons, including MLA Anant Singh.Lawyer strikePatna: Members of Patna District Bar Association would abstain from professional work on July 15, demanding that state vigilance be allowed in subordinate judiciary.Rights panel whipPatna: Bihar Human Rights Commission on Tuesday summoned the nodal officer of Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) in a case related to the dismissal of four anganwadi sevikas of Madhepura district without showcause.One Manrupi Devi and four others were dismissed from service on charges of producing fake educational certificates to get the jobs.Cuffs on RedsGaya: Police on Tuesday nabbed three Maoists suspected to be involved in the killing of five personnel of Raushanganj police station party in 2014, attack on the same police station in 2013 apart from other incidents.Ritlal casesPatna: Police on Tuesday produced MLC Ritlal Yadav in many courtrooms of Patna civil court in different cases, including Satyendra murder case. Yadav is in Beur jail.NabardPatna: Nabard celebrated its 34th foundation day on Tuesday by organising a function here. Chief guest M.K. Verma, the RBI regional director, lauded Nabard's efforts in agriculture and rural development sectors. He also praised its contributions towards self-help groups and kisaan credit cards.ProtestPatna: The Amin Sangh took out an adhikar (rights) march on Tuesday from Kargil Chowk to R-Block, protesting against the delay in appointment of amins in the state.AwarenessPatna: Punjab National Bank's financial literacy centre organised a financial awareness programme, under the aegis of Nabard and Financial Inclusion Fund, at Nisarpura village on Tuesday. The villagers were given first-hand knowledge of Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.

Former Kerala High Court judge S. Sirijagan has called for greater transparency and accountability in the operation of the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) and the Employees State Insurance (ESI) schemes.Inaugurating a seminar organised by the Thiruvananthapuram chapter of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Cosmopolitan Association of Professionals here on Thursday, Mr. Sirijagan regretted the failure of the EPF and the ESI authorities to comply with the directions and orders of the judiciary and tribunals.

Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan YojanaFor opening 2.22 lakh bank accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana and having Rs 59 crore deposited in these accounts, the Chandigarh Administration has been conferred with the Prime Minister Award for excellence in Public Administration in the UT category.The award was received by UT Deputy Commissioner Ajit Balaji Joshi from Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a ceremony held in New Delhi on Thursday.The PM Awards for Excellence in Public Administration have been instituted to acknowledge, recognise and reward the innovative work done by officers of the Central and state governments for the welfare of common citizen.Under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna (PMJDY), Chandigarh was conferred with an award for exemplary work showcased by the Union Territory.As part of the initiative, the Chandigarh Administration has achieved the target of one account per household within seven months of launch of PMJDY. For enhancing enrolment under PMJDY, special counters were set up in various public dealing offices like the DC office, SDM and estate office. Asha and aganwari workers were also enrolled, outsourcing agencies enrolled their manpower, labour department was actively involved, awareness programmes were conducted and destitute women and widows were also enrolled.A new category of excellence in implementing a priority programme which includes Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna (PMJDY), Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen), Swachh Vidyalaya and Soil Health Card Scheme has been added to the Prime Ministers Awards for Excellence in Public Administration.The achievements* 2.22 lakh accounts opened under the PMJDY* Rs 59 crore deposited in PMJDY accounts* 49,778 people enrolled under Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana* 1,27,389 people enrolled under Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana* 2,800 people enrolled under Atal Pension Yojana* 1.99 lakh accounts seeded with Aadhaar out of 2.22 lakh accounts opened* 1.02 lakh RuPay cards activated out of which 1.82 lakh have been issued* 25 Active Bank Mitra in Chandigarh* 40,615 transactions worth Rs 30.28 crore in last three months by Bank MitraFor all the latest India News, download Indian Express App now

Welfare measures:Minister for Panchayats and Social Justice M.K. Muneer; S.S. Bhat, Chief General Manager Canara Bank (left); and Nirmal Chand, Regional Director, Reserve Bank of India; at a town hall meeting organised by the State Level Bankers Committee on the social security schemes of the Union government, in the city on Wednesday. Photo: S. GopakumarMinister for Panchayats and Social Justice M.K. Muneer on Wednesday said around 33 lakh people in the State had joined the social security schemes  Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana  launched by the Union government. Around 24 lakh people had enrolled under Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Beema Yojana alone.Inaugurating a State-level town hall meeting convened by the State Level Bankers Committee to re-energise the schemes, he said the State government would do everything possible to promote the social security programmes among the people. Such meetings would be held at 37 places in the State, he added.The State had achieved significant strides in providing social security to the people through various schemes. Around 50 lakh people in the State were getting pensions under various social security schemes, he said.The Minister honoured business correspondents of banks who enrolled maximum number of persons under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. Regional Director of the Reserve Bank of India Nirmal Chand, Executive Director of Kudumbasree K.B. Valsalakumari, Chief General Manager National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Ramesh Tenkil, and convenor of State Level Bankers Committee N. Sivasankaran were present.

Bhubaneswar, March 16: Around 1,000 homeguards today ceased work and sat on a dharna demanding a hike in their remuneration. They also demanded that they should not be discharged from service before proper inquiry was conducted. United under the banner of Nikhila Utkal Gruharakhi Mahasangha, the homeguards sat on dharna at Mahatma Gandhi Marg and threatened to launch an indefinite hunger strike if the government did not pay heed to their demands. The agitation came to an end in the afternoon after a five-member team of homeguards met home secretary U.N. Behera and the government agreed to accept their demands. The agitation affected the normal functioning of the police department as a large number of homeguards work for the force. Many police control room vehicles stayed off the road. Some senior police officers were seen driving their own vehicles to work. We are managing traffic, patrolling the city, helping the crime detection team and working to maintain law and order. We are also deployed at the residence of senior officers to carry out their household work, said a homeguard. He added that the government had been paying them a mere pittance for all the work. The home secretary said our daily remuneration will be increased from Rs 150 to Rs 250. Besides he also assured there will be no retrenchment of homeguards without conducting a proper inquiry and those who have been discharged will be reinstated, said Sanjaya Behera, president of the mahasangha. The additional director general of police, Binaya Kumar Behera, who is in charge of the homeguards, said earlier his department had given a proposal to the government to hike their remuneration. I dont know why these people held the protest. Earlier, their remuneration had been increased from Rs 90 to Rs 150. Seeing the growing market prices we had sent another proposal last year to the government for another hike. The decision is pending with the state government, said Behera. The mahasangha members said they were demanding a pay hike and an end to illegal retrenchment. They were also demanding reinstatement of the retrenched employees. We are also demanding Employees Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance. We want to be declared as fourth grade employees of the state government, said the president. The state has 15,708 homeguards working for the state police.

Jan Dhan controversy may figure in FM, bankers meet tomorrowNew Delhi, Sep 15, 2016 (PTI) 15:30 ISTThe controversy over some bankers depositing Re 1 in Jan Dhan accounts to keep the number of zero balance account low is likely to figure at the quarterly meeting of PSU banks' heads with Finance Minister Arun Jaitley tomorrow.The meeting will review the first quarter performance of public sector banks and financial institutions, sources said.Besides, they said, the meeting will discuss credit growth and bad loan situation, adding that various recovery measures by banks as well as the legislative steps taken by the government to expedite recovery are also part of the agenda.The meeting assumes significance in the light of recent report in a section of media citing specific instances where Re 1 or more was deposited by bankers themselves to bring down the number of zero balance accounts.In a late night clarification yesterday Finance Ministry said that it will ascertain facts with regard to instances of bankers depositing small amounts in the Jan Dhan accounts to reduce the number of zero balance accounts.Observing that there was no requirement of minimum balance in the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) accounts, the Ministry had said "in view of the specific instances mentioned (in a media report), facts are being ascertained to assess if there has been any misunderstanding at the branch level of the objectives of the scheme."PMJDY, the flagship financial inclusion scheme of the government, aims to provide financial services, deposit accounts, remittances and overdraft facility.It also seeks to inculcate a widespread banking habit and create credit histories of account holders, thereby facilitating them to access overdraft/credit from banks.The meeting will also discuss various steps taken to expedite recovery of bad loans, the sources added.Gross NPA of the public sector banks have surged from 5.43 per cent (Rs 2.67 lakh crore) in 2014-15 to 9.32 per cent (Rs 4.76 lakh crore) in 2015-16.Many banks including Bank of India, Dena Bank, and Central Bank of India, reported losses for the quarter ended June 30, due to a sharp jump in provisions for NPAs on account of an asset quality review mandated by the RBI in December.In a bid to shore up cash-strapped public sector banks, the government last month announced infusion of Rs 22,915 crore capital in 13 lenders including SBI and Indian Overseas Bank to revive loan growth that has hit a two-decade low.This is the first tranche of capital infusion for the current fiscal and more funds would be provided in future depending on the performance of PSBs.Besides, the meeting will take stock of various schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY).Jaitley will also review the progress made with regard to Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency (MUDRA) and Stand Up India programme, the sources said.

he rationale for the huge difference between gross wages and take-home salary was to encourage long-term savings and to protect employees from themselves.In 1925, Motilal Nehru asked the chief of the Indian army: What do you mean by Indianising the Indian army? The army is ours. What we want is to get rid of the Europeans in the Indian army. Current labour laws that require employers to confiscate 45 per cent of the salary of employees whose wages are under Rs 1.8 lakh per annum and hand it over to various programmes and agencies like the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), Employees Pension Scheme, Employees Deposit-Linked Insurance Scheme, Employees State Insurance Corporation deserve exactly the same quip. The money does not belong to these organisations or schemes and only a fool would argue that a persons salary is not actually his property to dispose of as he chooses.More importantly, and painfully, government data is clear that employees with wages this low do not have any savings. It is impossible, or at least very difficult, for them to live on half their salary. The next round of labour law reform must fix this injustice and give employees three choices in how they would like to receive their salary.But first, lets step back a bit. Labour law reforms are crucial for making India a fertile habitat for job creation and manufacturing. People who say they dont matter have obviously never studied the effect of the Hartz committee labour reforms on the transition of Germany from being the sick man of Europe to the manufacturing dynamo that it is today. Recent ministry of labour announcements demonstrated courage and understanding that fixing the plumbing makes life easier for entrepreneurs. But the objective of the next round of labour reform should be to increase formal employment. Indias low productivity is rooted in painful transmission losses  our 6.3 crore enterprises only translate into 7,500 companies with paid-up capital of more than Rs 10 crore.Informal employment is not entirely a result of our difficult hire-and-fire regime alone. It is largely because the move to a cost-to-company salary model, under which benefits are not over and above salary but reduce the amount that one takes home, is not attractive. The migration of youngsters from rural areas to Indias six biggest cities is already slowing down to a trickle because of the massive divergence between real wages (what employees care about) and nominal wages (what employers care about). But this painful real-nominal divergence is amplified further by the divergence between what employees call chitthi-waali salary (gross pay) and haath-waali salary (net take-home pay).The huge difference between gross and net salary  part of the difference is funnelled into schemes that offer poor value for money, bad service and are humiliating  breeds informal employment. In the case of informal jobs, gross salary is equal to net salary. Notwithstanding the recent laudable attempts to create portability, the EPFO and the Employees State Insurance Corporation are fundamentally goofy monopolies. There are 55 million dormant accounts, more than half the total number of accounts, in the EPFO. Hard-earned money is abandoned by employees because they are frustrated with the organisations incompetence, corruption and inefficiency. Additionally, the EPFOs charge of 440 basis points makes it the worlds most expensive government securities mutual fund  other mutual funds charge 25 basis points for gilt funds. The Employees State Insurance Corporation has Indias worst health insurance claims ratio  it only pays 49 per cent of contributions as benefits  and offers rotten care, while sitting on Rs 28,000 crore of idle financial investments. The revitalised ministry of labour should continue to defer any amendments concerning the controversial hire-and-fire issue and the next round of high-impact labour reform should focus on giving employees three choices in how their salary is paid.The first choice should be whether to pay the 12 per cent employee contribution to the EPFO. This is an unaffordable salary deferment for low-wage employees who cannot live on 45 per cent of their gross salary. Employees should have three options: to opt out of this contribution when joining; to pay it into their individual National Pension Scheme accounts, as is the case for new civil servants; or to continue paying it to the EPFO.The second choice that employees must have is whether to pay the 12 per cent employer contribution to the Employees Pension Scheme or to the National Pension Scheme. The Employees Pension Scheme is bankrupt  a deficit of Rs 50,000 crore is being balanced by brutally and slyly reducing benefits. Employees must be allowed to choose between it and diverting their employer contribution to the EPFO as payment towards their National Pension Scheme individual accounts.As their third choice, employees should be given the option to pay their monthly health insurance premium to the Employees State Insurance Corporation or to purchase a plan from any Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority-regulated health insurance company. The insurance industry would gladly create the information technology infrastructure to ensure that these policies are seamlessly portable when an employee moves from one company to another.The rationale for the huge difference between gross wages and take-home salary was to encourage long-term savings and to protect employees from themselves or, rather, from their myopia. This is not just patronising, it is impossible because the payroll confiscation rate cannot be higher than the savings rate. A revamp of our benefits regime is also overdue because of a shift in the nature of employment contracts from lifetime mai-baap relationships to short taxicab transactions that need backpack benefits which are easily portable with job changes. This reform will also act as fuel for our ambitious skills agenda because, as the work of Nobel laureate Gary Becker suggests, individual investments in human capital are closely linked to take-home pay. The EPFO and the Employees State Insurance Corporation do not have clients but hostages because of labour laws that currently protect their monopolies. Indias job emergency desperately needs the ministry of labour to end this.The writer is chairman, Teamlease Servicesexpress@expressindia.comFor all the latest Opinion News, download Indian Express App

businessUpdated: Oct 22, 2020, 06:24 ISTThe Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a plan to disburse more than Rs. 3,737 crore to central government employees before Dussehra to boost spending in the festive season.The move will benefit more than 3 million non-gazetted employees, including those in autonomous central organizations, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said after a cabinet meeting.This will boost demand in the market. We are ready to disburse 3,737 crore immediately, before Dussehra (25 October), Javadekar said.The Union government has been nudging staffers, who have been relatively unaffected by job losses and salary cuts because of the coronavirus pandemic, to spend as it seeks to spur demand in the economy.Of the total beneficiaries, almost 1.7 million non-gazetted employees of commercial establishments, including those at railways, post, defence, Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO), Employees State Insurance Corp., etc. will be benefitted, and the financial implication would be Rs.2,791 crore.Besides, an ad-hoc bonus will be given to 1.37 million non-gazetted central government employees, which will cost the exchequer Rs.946 crore, the union minister said. The move will also help address concerns of government employees who were worried that the government might do away with the bonus payment this year after it froze dearness allowance rates till July.Wednesdays decision comes just days after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced measures worth 46,675 crore, including interest-free festival loans for government employees to stimulate consumer spending.Through such announcements, the government is trying to perk up demand in the market. While the previous measures to nudge central government employees to spend more on consumer durables by utilizing LTC and interest-free loans came with strings attached, this bonus decision seems to be without any conditions, but its too small in size to affect demand significantly, said Sunil Sinha, principal economist of India Ratings and Research, a part of the Fitch Group.While the measures announced in the previous months did help the supply side to some extent, the demand side measures announced in the last two weeks is small. But, if you ask if the government is serious about reviving demand, then the answer is yes, but they dont have enough fiscal space. If you wish to increase spending, you have to put money in the hands of those who dont have an assured income. People with assured income may actually save due to risk aversion in the current economic uncertainty, Sinha added.Indias GDP contracted 23.9% in the June quarter, making it the worst performer among G20 economies and the Reserve Bank of India has forecast that Indias economy will contract 9.5% in FY21.

HYDERABAD: Union human resource development minister Smriti Irani, along with the state finance minister Etela Rajender, on Saturday launched the Centre's insurance and pension schemes  Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana  in the state."These are unique financial instruments that have the potential to provide social security cover to a large number of people in the country as the premium is very low. The new schemes will be primarily helpful for those who work in the unorganized sector as they generally do not have adequate resources to insure themselves because they contribute a major part of their earnings towards the wellbeing of their families," Irani said.The launch in Hyderabad was a part of a national programme, wherein these schemes were simultaneously rolled out in 115 cities across India. In fact, the two insurance schemes have already being rolled out in the state on a pilot basis on May 1 and 23 lakh people have already adopted these polices, State Bank of Hyderabad chief general manager V Viswanathan said."Of the 23 lakh policies sold by multiple banks in the state, 13 lakh have been sold by the SBH alone, which is the lead banker to the government of Telangana," he said.With a major chunk of the population not having any insurance or pension cover in the state, Rajender pointed out that the new schemes can be easily adopted by people as the premiums were as low as Rs 12 a year. "Even a cup of coffee comes for Rs 20 these days," he said in a lighter vein.The first scheme  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana  will provide a cover of Rs 2 lakh in case of death in an accident for a premium of Rs 12 per annum. The second scheme, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana is a life insurance scheme that assures a sum of Rs 2 lakh to the family on the death of the policy holder for an annual premium of Rs 330.Meanwhile, the Atal Pension Yojana will ensure pensions ranging between Rs 1,000-5,000, depending upon the contribution made by the policy holder between the age of 18-40.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while rolling out these three schemes in Kolkata, said that these schemes were aimed at 'Jan Suraksha' as around 90% of the Indian population did not have any insurance or pension cover.He said even the the Prime Minister Jan Dhan Yojna was received very well as 15 crore accounts have been opened and over Rs 15,800 crore have been deposited in these accounts till now.

Charan Singh, Mayuresh Phegade and Deepen Sanghavi, August 10, 2015 0:07 ISTFARMERS' SUICIDES : There is a need to build a database on farmers, using the latest technology, to identify vulnerable farmers under financial distrIn the recent weeks, there have been a spate of farmer suicides in the country most probably because of inclement weather and crop failures. In fact, on a single day, according to press reports, recently, there were 9 suicides in Karnataka and more than 150 in last four months. The main reasons for the suicides are financial distress and indebtedness, largely fuelled by erratic monsoons.Traditionally, according to data released by the government, nearly half of farmer suicides are on account of financial distress. Illustratively, in 2014, 2755 of 5650 farmer suicides could be attributed to factors like indebtedness (1163), failure of crops (952), natural calamities (491) and poverty (149).The farmers are in financial distress for various reasons. First and foremost, they lack financial literacy because of which they tend to take loans beyond their repaying capacity. As a number of financial institutions are operating in rural areas, farmers succumb to the opportunities and avail loans from different sources. Quite often, over and above, long term loans from formal institutions, farmers also choose to take short term loans in the hope of a good harvest.In addition, for any social purpose, easy access to loans from money lenders adds to the repayment burden. In many cases, once there is a crop failure due to various reasons, mainly natural, farmers being unaware of alternatives, come under financial distress. The variation in prices especially at the harvesting stage also adds to financial distress. One example can be the case of sugarcane prices in recent weeks.In India, in addition to the traditionally long standing factors and general slowdown of the economy, significant unpredictable climatic changes are taking place due to global warming. Further, the current year could face the brunt of El Nino effect. Therefore, it will be helpful to be well-prepared for a crisis in next few months.As revealed by the data, it is very disturbing that in the fast growing economy like India and the prosperous state of Karnataka which houses the IT hub of the country, farmers have to sacrifice their lives in the face of financial distress, especially indebtedness. Thus, there is an urgent need to address this problem, by building a database on the farmers, using the latest available technology in the country to identify vulnerable farmers who are under financial distress and those getting into a similar situation. Probably, local offices of the Reserve Bank of India and National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development can help in this exercise.The preparation and maintaining of such a list would necessarily be costly and require application of modern technology, including big data analysis to determine the behaviour of farmers, weather forecasts, satellite mapping of cropping pattern and status of crops on real time basis, and trends in the forward and commodities markets.But, the country incurs a substantial pecuniary loss at every death of a farmer in addition to the general loss to the society and therefore, preparation of such a list should be a priority despite the cost. The list would also provide an opportunity to begin providing counselling to the farmer, if need be, to face the rising distress. Finally, like the non-performing assets, there is a need to fix responsibility for every suicide death of the farmer in the country.Historically, the government has been introducing multiple schemes for farmers like Kisan Credit Cards, crop term loans, crop standing loans, and spread of business correspondents of banks to wean the farmers away from private money lenders but not with much success. To mitigate the problems specific to the farmers, the government has also launched the National Agriculture Insurance Scheme (NAIS), a crop insurance scheme.In case of natural problems and disasters, the government generally provides liberal grants and waives-off loans to mitigate economic woes of the farmers. But despite these well-known measures, the distress for the farmers continues and so do the suicides.Social security measuresOf late, the government has been initiating wide spread social security measures across the country in terms of banking the unbanked and funding the unfunded. It has also initiated schemes like Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana. Thus, the government is providing social and welfare oriented programmes to benefit the masses, including the farmers.The government could consider another scheme - sustainability allowance scheme - for distressed farmers, during critical times like natural and climatic disasters for financially distressed people for a few months or a year until the next cropping season or their income stabilises. This suggested scheme is similar to the unemployment benefits offered by governments of many countries across the globe for the unemployed people.Under this scheme, the earning member of the family will get two main benefits - further loan to set up business/initial finance for agriculture and monthly compensation for one year till his next regular income. Therefore, the government could consider payments of additional funds to the farmer during the year in addition to loan waivers and restructuring of loans which does not add any purchasing power to the farmer household.The sustainability allowance scheme not only solves the current problems of not being able to pay the loans, but also gives strength and financial support to the people for recovering from natural disasters and start afresh. The farmer will be able to fulfil all financial needs required for his business, school fees for children, food requirement for family through this income.Thus, they do not have to worry about sustaining their family but live with dignity and pride till the next crop season comes up or income from business is restored and stabilised. Hopefully, this will help solve the suicides problem amongst farmers and rural areas.(Singh is RBI Chair Professor of Economics; Phegade and Sanghavi are PGP students working on social security measures. All are with IIM-Bangalore.)

Workers at Godhar colliery in Dhanbad in May last year. Picture by Gautam DeyAround 40,000 people engaged in loading and unloading coal at various BCCL and ECL mines here will benefit from the newly launched Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan Yojana, a pension scheme for workers in the unorganised sector.The scheme will cover workers in the age group of 18-40 years whose monthly income does not exceed Rs 15,000. They will have to deposit an amount, ranging between Rs 55 and Rs 200 a month (depending on age), and after they turn 60, each will get Rs 3,000 as pension every month.The district labour employment and training department is all set to organise camps in colliery areas to enrol eligible workers. Rough estimates suggest around 80,000 workers are engaged in the unorganised coal sector in Dhanbad, out of which half fit the 18 to 40 age bracket.District labour enforcement officer Harendra Kumar Singh said he had designated two labour superintendents for organising a camp each in Dhanbad, Baghmara, Jharia and Baliapur before March 5.Deputy commissioner A. Dodde said the scheme would not just benefit coal workers, but also labourers in construction projects and at brick kilns. Registration of over 400 workers (outside colliery) has already been carried out, he added.Assistant labour commissioner of Dhanbad Pradip Robert Lakra said the list of workers in the unorganised sector further included servants, maids, cobblers, rag-pickers, washer men/women, rickshaw-pullers, landless farmers, those engaged in midday meal schemes and cottage industry employees, among others.They can register themselves for the scheme at the nearest common service centre by submitting a copy of the Aadhaar card and bank details, Lakra said, clarifying that those workers covered under the Employees Provident Fund Organisation, Employees State Insurance Scheme and National Pension Scheme will not be eligible.The monthly instalment is to be paid till a person turns 60. In case of death of the registered subscriber before the age of 60, his immediate dependant will get a pension of Rs 1,500 a month, Lakra said.Again, if a subscriber quits the scheme before 10 years, he/she will get back the premium amount with whatever interest will be accrued. On quitting the scheme after 10 years, a worker will get back his principal amount, besides the same amount deposited by the government, and interest on both amounts, Lakra added.Indradeo Paswan, a labourer at BCCLs coal loading site in Lodna, Jharia, welcomed the pension scheme, but underscored that the ambit should be widened. I am 45 and hence, no longer eligible to become a beneficiary. While I am happy that over 1,000 co-workers at Lodna will benefit from the scheme, it will be rather nice if the age limit is increased by a few years.

The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) added 73.5 lakh subscribers between September 2017 and November 2018, according to government data released on Friday.The EPFO is a retirement fund for employees in the formal sector. All firms employing more than 20 workers are required to subscribe to the scheme.The Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) gained more than 1.8 crore new subscribers over the same 15-month period. The ESI insurance scheme is applicable to firms with more than 10 workers each.The data was released on Friday by the Central Statistics Organisation (CSO) of the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation.The present report gives different perspectives on the levels of employment in the formal sector and does not measure employment at a holistic level, the CSO said in the statement.Chances of overlapIt added that since the numbers of subscribers are from various sources, there are elements of overlap and the estimates are not additive.Labour and employment experts have also warned against using EPFO and ESIC data as a direct indication of job growth.

MADURAI: Poor parents of a deceased industrial worker will now get family pension after the Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO), Trichy, has been directed to disburse the amount due from their son's account. Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) issued the order in this regard on a writ petition filed by S Sermadurai, the father of the deceased. The order slammed a PF official for acting arbitrarily.The petitioner's son Singarajan, who was a contract worker at Dalmia Cement in Trichy, died in an industrial accident on July 19, 2007. As he was not married at the time of death, his parents were entitled for family pension under the EPF scheme. Though, Singarajan's parents had even submitted application to the assistant PF commissioner, Trichy, in February 2008, they were denied the benefit. Rejecting their claim, the EPF authority passed an order in May 2010 stating that the principal employer failed to substantiate the membership of the deceased in the EPFO. The order also stated that the employer failed to pay compensation under the Workmen Compensation Act (WC Act). In reply, Singarajan's employer reasoned that since his parents are getting monetary benefit from Employees State Insurance Corporation on a monthly basis, claim under the WC Act would not arise.When the distressed parents, residents of Theraspuram in Tuticorin district, sent legal notice to EPFO in March 2012 as there was no reply from the body for two years, it replied stating it had decided to sanction temporary pension to them and the papers have been delivered to its Tirunelveli regional office. However, when Singarajan's parents approached the office in Tirunelveli, the officials were in the dark about it. Left with no other option, Sermadurai filed the writ petition before the high court bench seeking direction to the PFO to provide the family pension.Justice D Hariparanthaman, who heard the case, noted that the assistant PF commissioner had acted arbitrarily and had refused to approach the issue in the spirit of a statutory scheme. "The organisation submitted as if the delay was due to the petitioner and the employer of the deceased son. But, the fact clearly shows that the delay is solely due to the assistant commissioner. Hence the assistant commissioner is liable to pay pension to the petitioner from the death of the deceased and 12 percent interest from March 6, 2008 till the payment of pension is made," the order said.

Two southern districts  Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar  have been ranked 5th and 8th respectively in the baseline ranking released for 101 of the 115 aspirational districts by NITI Aayog.The rankings were based on 49 indicators, including health, education, agriculture, basic infrastructure and financial inclusion. They are the two districts in Tamil Nadu selected by the Centre for overall development under New India vision 2022.While Virudhunagar has been ranked first in health, Ramanathapuram is close behind in the second position. With frequent meetings organised by Virudhunagar Collector A. Sivangnam, various departments have started working with focus on select areas. For example, the Health department has arrested the falling sex ratio in the last three months by sealing two scan centres that were reportedly involved in sex determination leading to sex selective abortions.The sex ratio that was at 873 in Virudhunagar health unit district has improved to 891 in the last three months, a senior official said. Vacancies in health units in Narikudi and Tiruchuli blocks, where the decline in sex ratio was reported, had been filled.With Virudhunagar finding a place among 16 districts classified as toughstations that make government doctors eligible for additional marks to get into post-graduate courses under NEET, more doctors are likely to come to this district.We are happy to figure in the top 10 and secure the 2nd rank in the health indicator, Ramanathapuram Collector S Natarajan said, reacting to the baseline rankings.It was a matter of pride that the district was ranked 5th in the composite ranking with an overall score of 46.78%, he said.Special focusPointing to the low ranking in some of the indicators such as financial inclusion (55th) and skill development (62nd), Mr. Natarajan said the administration would give special focus to all low-ranking indicators. As per the baseline rankings, the district secured 19th rank in education with a score of 55.89%; 17th in agriculture with 18.39% and 15th in basic infrastructure with 68.73%.Except in financial inclusion and skill development, the district was placed in the better 20 category in most of the other indicators.The ranking of Virudhunagar in other sectors are: agriculture (23), financial inclusion (29), education (33) and basic infrastructure (47).With the daily progress in the identified five sectors with 49 indicators to be monitored on a real-time basis by Niti Ayog, the Virudhungar district administration has geared up to improve its performance to emerge as the best in the State and nation.Special trainingThe education department has started to offer special training to teachers in primary and secondary levels to prepare students to develop better understanding of the subjects and languages. Our teachers are now being trained to identify the problems of students, even if it is something to do with their families and find solutions that, an official said. By this way, we are going to arrest dropout rate. Though infrastructure and adequate number of teachers are available, the concentration is to make at least 170 toilets in schools functional, he added.To improve farming sector, Animal Husbandry officials have proposed to increase artificial insemination cover from the present 73% to 83% in one year.The banking sector too has geared up to increase its coverage under financial inclusion, insurance schemes. Number of beneficiaries of Mudra has increased to 71,124, a jump of 15,000 in the last three months.Similarly, special campaigns are conducted for the Pradhan Mantri Jeevn Jyoti Bima Yojna, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana. We have almost covered 100% population in opening bank accounts, a bank official said.

Slamming the Opposition for stalling important Bills in Parliament, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley on Saturday said that passing of the new Goods and Services Tax (GST) Bill would bring in more transparency in the tax system of the country.India will become one seamless market [with the introduction of the GST] and result in economic integration of India, said Mr. Jaitley, launching the three flagship social security schemes of the NDA government here.The three schemes  the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and the Atal Pension Yojana (APY) would be the integral part of governments economic policy, he said.Benefit for StatesStates will stand to benefit more from GST, said Mr. Jaitley adding that Maharashtra would get more share than before.The GST Constitution Amendment Bill was approved by the Lok Sabha earlier this week. The Bill is now pending before Rajya Sabha, where the BJP government is not having a majority. The Constitution Amendment Bill needs to be approved by two-third majority in both Houses of Parliament.Saying that the present government believes in more transparent governance, Mr. Jaitley said that no one needs to visit North Bloc or South Bloc to get allocation for coal or spectrum. We have a transparent mechanism for allocation, he said.He said that India had the potential to move from 7 to 8 per cent to a double-digit growth, but a higher growth in agriculture is the main challenge before the government.Mr. Jaitley said that agriculture and irrigation would get higher allocation of resources.The additional resources the government gets would go to the poor.

NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reiterated his government's commitment to implement the One Rank, One Pension (OROP) scheme for ex-servicemen, but sought time to resolve its complexities.Attacking the previous governments for "playing politics" over the issue for the past 40 years, he said OROP was "a complex issue, a vexed issue. You have been patient for 40 years. Give me some time to address it."In his 'Mann ki Baat' radio address, Modi said various departments were working to resolve the complexities as "it is not a simple matter" and added that "running commentary" through the media on the details of the progress will not help.Lauding the services of the defence personnel, he said he could understand their problems as he was talking to them "as an individual rather than as a Prime Minister"."We are committed to OROP. .... Is it not a fact that for 40 years, this matter has been pending? ... No government in the past has implemented it. Political elements have played games with you on the issue. You have faith in us," Modi said in a 25-minute speech.OROP has been a long-standing demand of over two million ex-servicemen of India. It seeks to ensure that a uniform pension for the defence personnel retiring in the same rank with the same length of service, irrespective of their date of retirement.Referring to the completion of one year of the BJP-led NDA rule, the Prime Minister said the entire country has debated on the positives and negatives of it. "It is important to known what have been the drawbacks," he said, adding that many sections have also praised his government's achievements in the past 12 months.The Prime Minister also spoke of the recent launch of three social major security schemes for the poor, saying that over 8.5 crore people have joined the schemes within 20 days of their launch. The schemes are Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.The Prime Minister also congratulated students who passed the Central Board of Second Education (CBSE) examinations and told the student community that success and failure are a part of life."(CBSE) Board exam results are out. I congratulate those who have passed the exams," Modi said.The prime minister, however, asked those not successful or scored low marks in their exams not to lose heart."Success and failure are a part of life. We can learn a lot from failure also," he added.Modi also said many people told him that his radio address before the exams was very helpful. "But, the reason for student's success is their hard work."Talking about the recently-launched DD Kisan channel, the prime minister said it gave him a "lot of joy".Describing the channel as an "open university", Modi said: "Kisan TV channel is a channel where both the teacher and the student are farmers."(With Agency inputs)

The social activists in Hisar believe over 20 per cent of the domestic helpers are still unemployed. (Representational)Hisar administration has stepped forward to help female domestic helpers who have lost jobs during the pandemic.The administration is preparing a database of the domestic helpers by conducting a survey in the town. Hisar Deputy Commissioner Dr Priyanka Soni told The Indian Express that the administration will try to help these workers get alternate employment by arranging skill training in tailoring apart from organising camps to make them aware about their rights.Loans can be availed for start-ups which will be facilitated by district administration. They may also form self help groups to start self-employment avenues, she added.Soni said the initiative, which has been named as Mission Chahak, was launched in September and till Wednesday the data of 2,500 women workers has been collected under the campaign.Under the initiative, domestic workers will be made aware about their legal rights available under domestic violence Act. They will also be told regarding legal provisions meant to check sexual harassment at workplace, laws for equal wages and minimum wages. The issues related to health problems, hygiene, corona virus precautions, child marriage prevention and trafficking of women will also be discussed during the camps organised under the campaign. They will also be guided regarding government schemes including Jan Dhan Yojana, PM Suraksha Bima Yojana, PM Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Ujjwala scheme, Atal pension scheme and various pension schemes.The social activists in Hisar believe over 20 per cent of the domestic helpers are still unemployed.In a survey conducted for 500 domestic workers in April-May this year, we had found as many as 350 of them had turned unemployed because of Covid-19, says a woman activist from Hisar, Babli Lamba, a former municipal councillor.After losing their jobs, they had to take loans to arrange food for family members. In few cases, the house owners asked them to vacate their premises when they failed to give rent for the same. Their wards could not continue their online studies properly in the absence of smartphones. They even faced difficulties in paying their school fees. Not only this, the corona phase even affected their physical and mental health too, added Lamba, who is district secretary of All India Democratic Women Association (AIDWA).On August 25, the domestic workers had gathered in Hisar to stage a demonstration demanding financial help of Rs 7,500 for each of them to cope up with the losses they suffered during the corona times.On administrations latest initiative, Lamba suggested the activists of womens organisations should also be associated with the campaign Mission Chahak so that they can give feedback to the officers regarding the ground realities.Welcoming the initiative, a Hisar-based lawyer, Vikram Mittal, said, The PGs (paying guests) are still closed because school, college and coaching centres are not functional completely till now. So, the workers, who were working in these PGs and other institutions, are still unemployed. They are ready to go to distant places to look for the jobs in the town. The Indian Express is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel (@indianexpress) and stay updated with the latest headlinesFor all the latest India News, download Indian Express App. The Indian Express (P) Ltd

The Karnataka Rajya Samyukta Vasati Nilaya Karmikara Sangha, affiliated to the All-India United Trade Union Congress (AIUTUC), staged a protest in front of the zilla panchayat office in Kalaburagi on Tuesday demanding to fill up the vacant group D posts by regularising the services of employees working in government hostels and residential schools.AIUTUC district president M.G. Raghavendra, in a memorandum addressed to Chief Executive Officer of the zilla panchayat, demanded that the Social Welfare Department to scrap the system of hiring workers on contract basis for the maintenance of government hostels in the district.The government should recognise the service of these workers who were working as cooks, assistant cooks, watchmen and cleaners for several years and must clear payment of arrears, he said. He alleged that the government neither paid the wages in accordance with revised Minimum Wages Act of 2008 nor contributed their share to Employees Provident Fund.He demanded immediate implementation of Employees State Insurance (ESI) and Provident Fund Schemes for the workers. Despite several protest, the officials failed to respond, he added.Department urged to stop hiring workers oncontract basis

FM to banks: take commercial decision without fear or favourNew Delhi, Mar 11, 2015 (PTI) 19:19 ISTPromising financial autonomy to PSU banks, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley today asked heads of public sector lenders to take commercial decisions without fear or favour.At the same time, he advised banks to facilitate appropriate credit expansion to meet the needs of the productive sectors of the economy so that the momentum of economic growth is sustained."CEOs of the banks and financial institutions (should) take commercial decisions without fear or favour as the government is committed to providing them financial autonomy both in letter and spirit," Jaitley said.The Minister was speaking at a meeting to review the quarterly performance of the public sector banks (PSBs) and financial institutions (FIs) here.He insisted that the banks should have strong public grievances redressal mechanism in place so that their clients do not have to approach the government to redress their grievances.The banks, he said, should adopt differentiated strategies and capital augmentation plans through innovative financial instruments, which would allow the banks to meet their capital requirements.Appreciating the work done by banks in Pradhan Matri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), the Finance Minister said achieving near total financial inclusion in a short period of time has shown that the banking system is capable of delivering the desired output when our energies are focused on the priority area.Jaitley also mentioned about the specific budget announcements made while delivering his Budget Speech 2015-16 to introduce Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.He said he expected that PSBs would play an active role in successful implementation of these schemes.

Centrism, as an essential characteristic of Indian politics, signifies the institutional incentive that political parties have to adopt a set of policies aimed at harmonising societal and cultural contradictions rather than accentuating them. Some of its essential elements are: centrality of an accommodative approach, appeal to minorities, welfarism and a broader space for dissent from the Left and the Right. No wonder, given the richness of Indian society and its multiple fault lines, centrism has been the hegemonic framework ensuring electoral success since Independence. Barring a few exceptions, this also accounts for the relative marginalisation of a leftward and rightward agenda in India until 2014. Can the setbacks to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Hindi heartland States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh be seen in this context?Centrisms rightward shiftThe spectacular success of the BJP in the 2014 general election marked a rightward shift wherein Narendra Modi, a fulcrum of subaltern agency, developmental aspiration and fierce Hindutva, claimed to speak for 125 crore Indians. He privileged the developmental aspirations of the electorate in his speeches, thereby arguing that politics of development is politics of inclusion, wherein everyone, including the minorities by implication, has a rightful place.The whopping success of the Modi-led BJP in abstract terms signified the ability of right-wing frames to contain all the constitutive elements of centrism and thereby make a persuasive claim of not being exclusive of any section of Indian society. It appeared that in the era of developmental aspiration, the Right had emerged as a better claimant to carry forward the mantle of centrism than the centrist parties.The idea of India First and Achhe Din implied the heralding of welfare-laden Indian citizenry across the board, claiming their rightful place in the comity of nations. The votaries of the economic right affirmed and celebrated the easy fit between centrism and the Right under Mr. Modi. Rural India shared the enthusiasm.However, the political trajectory of the BJP since 2014 has two big takeaways. The promised material plurality never came and the unsaid cultural singularity emanating from the Hindutva discourse acquired prominence. The former is visible in the initiation of a series of welfare policies, especially for poorer sections, like cheap housing (Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana), toilets for all, disbursal of LPG cylinders (Ujjwala Yojana), the health insurance scheme (Ayushman Bharat), besides schemes such as Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, and Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana.The ground narratives reveal that none of these welfare schemes has been successful in capturing the imagination of the people, amid general price rise and joblessness. Moreover, the debilitating impact of demonetisation on pre-existing rural distress and agrarian crisis is getting strong credence with a corresponding resonance among rural voters. It seems the governments material policies/schemes resemble a scenario of people being served with starters upon starters without a main course.Simultaneously, parallel to the material plurality, India has witnessed the emergence of a series of cultural policies/issues focussed around the themes of cow, Mandir, changing names of places and questions of citizenship, all emanating from Hindutvas framework of cultural singularity.This attempt to not only infuse the cultural singularity of Hindutva with material plurality of welfare schemes but also see the former superseding the latter problematises the claim that centrism could have an easy fit with a rightward polity. Centrism, by definition, desires a parity between the material and the cultural in their pluralities. As a corollary, a singularity in any realm is the antithesis of centrism. Thus, the emerging crisis of the material realm and attempts to overshadow it with cultural politics reveal that while the Right could negotiate with the framework of centrism in a material realm by speaking for all, in the cultural realm it remains diametrically opposed to this pitch, excluding the minorities in subtle ways. Hence, the argument that both the centre and centrism witnessed a rightward shift seems shaky.A look at the electionsTo contextualise the interplay of cultural singularity and material plurality in the electoral verdicts in the just-concluded Assembly elections, especially in three Hindi-speaking States where the BJP and the Congress were pitted directly against each other, one needs to go back a bit back and take the Uttar Pradesh election as the starting point where Mr. Modi used the binary of kabristan-shamshan and Diwali-Ramzan while exhorting voters to choose the BJP to end the exile of development in the State.Not to be left behind, both Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav competed to emerge as champions of Muslim interests and, by extension, of secularism. Ms. Mayawati claimed in almost all her rallies that she gave 100 seats to Muslims  a rhetoric the BJP exploited to the hilt. Demonetisation and peoples suffering  the material issues  took a back seat in political calculations. The unprecedented victory of the BJP and the selection of firebrand Hindutva leader Yogi Adityanath as U.P. Chief Minister signified the ascendency of cultural singularity being a condition to developmental politics.The glimmers of this were visible in the Gujarat election though the equations had changed by then. The BJP suffered serious setbacks in rural seats. The historic win in Tripura gave the BJP the mistaken confidence about the invincibility of cultural issues qualifying the material promises. It rejected the subsequent setbacks in by-elections as aberrations until it suffered defeat in the recent Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh Assembly elections in varying degrees.The factors that revived the Congress from dormancy were the material crisis after demonetisation and the Goods and Services Tax. The combination of rural distress, joblessness and rural inflation are the issues that significantly account for the BJPs electoral loss. There is no reason to believe that these issues will not be relevant in 2019, as is argued in the oft-repeated electoral clich that the dynamics for the Assembly and Lok Sabha elections are qualitatively different. Also, it would be wrong to read too much in the Congresss recent flirtation with soft Hindutva. The Congress did not get votes due to Congress president Rahul Gandhis temple visits. The cultural posturing of the Congress was just a symbolic labelling beneath which lay its position of being a default alternative and spelling promise for farmers and the youth.All attempts to whip up issues of a Ram temple and name-changing did not prevent the BJP from losing a substantial portion of votes to the Congress. The success of cultural politics presupposes the delivery of a basic minimum denominator of material interest. The BSP, too, did not resonate with Dalit voters in the three States despite controversy and anger around the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, as the party did not have any material narrative. Similarly, Muslims voted more enthusiastically for the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in Telangana rather than the Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen on account of the TRSs populist welfare policies.Road to 2019This marked material crisis informing the Indian polity indicates the shrinking space of cultural politics. Hence, the road to 2019 lies in the framework of centrism that guarantees electoral success in resurrecting material politics without any polarising attempt to privilege the cultural singularity of Hindutva or its rhetorical counterpart from the Lefts attempt to forge a Dalit-Muslim alliance.Sajjan Kumar is a political analyst associated with Peoples Pulse, a research organisation specialising in fieldwork based political research

COIMBATORE: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced that the government is in the process of bringing in new legislation to secure the interests of both unorganised and organised workers. The Employees State Insurance Act and the Employees Provident Fund Organisation Act are aimed at providing a stronger welfare net.Inaugurating a new Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Medical College and Hospital in Coimbatore, he said these new laws would provide more choice, increased coverage for workers and employers, and better and expanded range of services for organized sector workers. He hoped the Tamil Nadu government would act quickly to start the college.The ESIC scheme entitles all government staff to free medical service at ESIC-run hospitals. There are 10 of them in TN. "This project worth Rs 580 crores will be a boon to ESIC beneficiaries," he said. "We should strive to make this medical college and hospital a model for high quality medical education and treatment to workers of the State," he said.ESIC has decided to adopt at least two model hospitals in each state. The Centre is committed to the development of a generous and comprehensive social safety net for all workers, he said.Speaking extempore in English, Modi said his government was looking at simplifying labour laws to increase the ease of doing business and facilitate job creation. "The labour ministry is simplifying central labour laws by consolidating 44 laws into four labour codes--wages, industrial relations, safety, security and health" he said. He also hinted that talks were on with trade unions."We are building consensus on these reforms through extensive stakeholder consultations with employers, worker's representatives and state governments" he said.The government has approved a scheme for upgradation of existing state and Central government-run medical colleges to increase MBBS seats, he said.Narendra Modi sought to strike a chord with the audience at the rally by starting his speech in Tamil. "Vanakkam," the Prime Minister said to loud applause from the audience, further saying, "Indur Kovai maanagaram vanathathil Magizhchi'' (I am happy to have come to Coimbatore city). An elated crowd responded with claps and whistles. The rest of his speech was in Hindi, however. TNNState BJP president Tamilisai Sounderarajan was visibly upset, allegedly after she got information that some party workers found it difficult to reach the venue because of `excessive' police action. She minced no words in warning the police against stopping her party cadres. Interrupting national secretary H Raja's speech, who was addressing the audience before Narendra Modi's arrival, she let the police know her mind.

Modi govt prepares for first anniversary celebrationsNew Delhi, May 20, 2015, DHNS: 1:23 ISTBJP plans a week-long 'Jan Kalyan Parv'Prime Minister Narendra Modi may choose to spend the anniversary of his government on May 26 in a village away from the national capital with sources in the government saying the day may be spent on mass public contact programme.Modi, who held a meeting with a core group of ministers in his Cabinet on Wednesday after his return from a tour of China, Mongolia and South Korea, is understood to have discussed the ways in which the completion of one year of NDA government should be celebrated. The meeting was attended among others by Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, Home Minster Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Sushma Swarah, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Venkaiah Naidu.According to sources, the government is planning to commemorate the completion of one year in a week-long Jan Kalyan Parv celebrations starting May 26.While the prime minister is expected to spend his day either at his constituency at Varanasi or at the birthplace of pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya at village Nagla Chandrabhan in Mathura, his ministerial colleagues will go to various parts of the country, particularly to rural areas, to tell people about the welfare measures taken for underprivileged sections and farmers.Besides, the Jan Dhan Yojana, which connects every household with a bank account, the government has initiated various social sector programmes for poor in the past 12 months. Important among these are Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana that are expected to take off from June 1.Modi maintains that his government has done much more in the first year of power compared to the work done by the previous two Congress regimes. The BJP has also lauded Modi for direct attack on poverty through rapid economic growth and governance through cooperative federalism. A dynamic foreign policy carried out by his government has also come for adulation by his critics.The anniversary celebrations will also be used to shed Modis pro-corporate image. The BJP has already announced a three-month Jan Sampark Karyakram or mass contact programme, to take forward its membership drive, which was first launched in November last year.

AHMEDABAD: After the initial boom, registrations under the Prime Minister's ambitious social security schemes have slowed down lately in his home state. So much so that banks have been asked to speed up the registrations and bridge the gap between people having bank accounts and people insured under the PM's insurance schemes.The ambitious insurance schemes launched by PM Narendra Modi in May 2015 have found over 58 lakh takers in Gujarat, with cities and towns in north Gujarat and Saurashtra racing ahead of the rest of the state to be covered.According to the state level bankers' committee (SLBC) report, until August 10, around 41 lakh people have been covered across the state under the accidental insurance scheme Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), while under the life insurance scheme Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), 17 lakh citizens have been covered.Out of over 1.2 crore bank accounts in the state, there are around 60 lakh active bank accounts and SLBC aims to meet the target after covering almost 50% of the account holders.The department of financial services under the union finance ministry has highlighted that the initial response towards enrollment has been very encouraging, according to the SLBC report. The progress in enrollment, however, reduced significantly in the recent period, even though vast untapped potential remains for these very affordable and attractive schemes. To boost the progress in the enrollment of the social security schemes on a comprehensive scale, a campaign has been proposed, which will be launched in every state."To enroll in these social security schemes, one must have a bank account. Under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, more than 62.5 lakh bank accounts have been opened in Gujarat but 60% of these accounts have zero balance. This makes it difficult for the banks to increase the enrollment," said a senior bank official.Meanwhile, banks in the state have also been asked to sensitize their branches about the benefits of these schemes amongst the general public.Under Atal Pension Yojana, around 32,301 people in the state have been enrolled till August 10, 2015.

Govt committed to bring positive change in lives of women:PMNew Delhi, Mar 8, 2015, (PTI) 10:15 ISTDenouncing the violence against women, Prime Minister Narendra Modi today said one-stop- centres and mobile helplines will be set up for women in distress."Our heads hang in shame when we hear of instances of crime against women. We must walk shoulder-to-shoulder to end all forms of discrimination or injustice against women," he said in a message on the occasion of International Women's Day."Today, we renew our pledge to make women an equal and integral part of our development journey. My Government has initiated several measures aimed at bringing about a positive change in the lives of women. That is central to our vision of India's progress and a life of dignity and opportunity for all our citizens," the Prime Minister said.Seeking the support of all in transforming the vision into reality, he said, "The Government is setting up one-stop-centres that will provide assistance, legal advice and psychological counselling to women who face violence or abuse."The Government is also commencing a mobile helpline to enable women to dial 181 for access to counselling and referral services," he said."Through various schemes & initiatives, our Government remains fully committed to bringing a positive change in the lives of women," the Prime Minister said, while saluting the "indomitable courage & outstanding achievements of women on International Women's Day".He noted that the Union Budget had unveils broadbased social security schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana which will benefit women in a big way.The 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' Yojana seeks to usher in a paradigm shift in attitudes towards the girl child and places emphasis on educating the girl child while the Sukanya Samruddhi Yojana will provide support for marriage and education of young women, he said.

The subscriber base for social security schemes launched by the Centre early this month has evoked good response in the district with last minute rush to enrol for the products which will come into effect from June 1, 2015.The Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) were launched by the Centre early this month to provide for accident insurance worth Rs. 2 lakh at Rs. 12 per annum under PMSBY and life insurance worth Rs. 2 lakh at Rs. 330 per annum under PMJBY tailor-made for people in the unorganised sector without a regular source of income. However, it is also open to all SB account holders irrespective of their economic status. In addition, the Atal Pension Yojana was also launched to provide for post-retirement income by way of pension.The total number of subscribers for the social security schemes had crossed 1.96 lakh as on May 29 and the numbers are expected to rise as the scheme will come into effect from Monday. Given the rush, we expect to increase the subscriber base to over 2.25 lakh mark within a day or two, said K.N. Shivalingaiah, Lead Bank Manager, SBM, Mysuru.Of the bouquet of the insurance products, it is the PBSBY with an annual premium of Rs. 12 which has caught the imagination of the public especially in the rural areas as it provides for security net by way of Rs. 2 lakh for the family members in the event of any untoward incident of the insured.Out of the nearly 1.96 lakh subscribers for the insurance products, more than 1.27 lakh account holders have enrolled for PMSBY while about 69,000 subscribers have enrolled for PMJBY in the district, said Mr. Shivalingaiah.Apart from the low premium of Rs. 12 per annum, the cut off date for enrolment being 70 years and security for the survivors in case of the death of the insured, is what has made the PMSBY popular especially among those in the unorganised sector.The Cauvery Grameena Bank alone has enrolled over 48,000 subscribers for the PMSBY in the district. The State Bank of Mysore has sold over 33,000 policies while Syndicate Bank has enrolled 41,740 customers for the insurance scheme. The SBI has enrolled over 23,000 customers while Canara Bank has upward of 18,000 customers for the products.N. Pinageeswaran, Chief Manager, Syndicate Bank, pointed out that the products were selling well across the district but the PMSBY had more traction in rural areas.It is easier to market these products in villages where people go by word of mouth and are convinced to emulate their fellow-citizens, he said.As the premium for the insurance schemes will be auto-debited from the accounts of the subscribers, the dormant SB accounts opened under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana too will be activated automatically.It is easier to market these products in villages where people go by word of mouth and are convinced to emulate their fellow-citizensN. PinageeswaranChief Manager, Syndicate Bank

Patna, May 27: Union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises Kalraj Mishra left no stone unturned in praising Narendra Modi at a function today.He, however, failed to provide figures for number of beneficiaries in the schemes launched by the Centre.The BJP is in celebration mode with the Modi-led government completing two years in office.As top cabinet ministers and party leaders have been asked to highlight the achievement of government across the country from May 27 to June 15 christened Vikas Parv, Mishra left no stone unturned in praising Modi at a function at Ravindra Bhavan.The BJP leader and MP from Deoria in Uttar Pradesh in his around 40-minutes speech talked about the schemes and programmes launched by Modi in two years right from Jan Dhan Yojana to Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, social security schemes of government, crop insurance to new Ujjwala Yojana which aims at providing LPG connection to people from BPL families.He said: "Under the Jan Dhan Yojana, around 22 crore bank accounts have been opened in one-and-a-half years. And the accounts have a balance of Rs 37,617 crore."The Jan Dhan Yojana is one the flagship projects of the Centre but going by the number of accounts opened and balance deposited in these accounts, the average money comes to Rs 1,700 per account.Mishra mentioned three social security schemes (Suraksha Bima Yojana, Jeevan Jyoti and Atal Pension Scheme), but the minister could not mention the number of beneficiaries.

Special camps will be held from December 19 to 24 to assist organised and unorganised sector workers and migrant labourers to open bank accounts, as per the directions of the Haryana government.A nodal officer will be deputed from each bank to work at the camps in a particular area.The camps will be held in association with the Labour Department, Employees State Insurance Corporation and Employees Provident Fund Organisation.The Labour Department has been entrusted with holding camps in Manesar Industrial Area, Udyog Vihars, Sector 37 Industrial Area, Daulatabad Industrial Area, Laxman Vihar Industrial Area and all other industrial pockets. Lead District Manager R. C. Nayak will be the overall co-ordinators of all banks.Establishments having a large number of organised and unorganised workers without bank accounts have been told to contact their official bankers with the list of workers and their nodal officers from the Human Resource department.Migrant labourersThe camps for migrant labourers will be held at Bhuteshwar Mandir Chowk, Sector 4-5 Chowk, Sikanderpur-Bristol Chowk and at Sector 22-23 Labour Chowk where migrant labourers assemble for their daily work.Two nodal officers from the Labour Department will provide the logistic support at the spot to the bankers.Accounts will be opened under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana for those not having a Permanent Account Number or supporting documents to open a regular savings accounts.Jan Dhan accountsEmployers have also been requested to furnish a letter stating the name of the workers employed in their establishment, their permanent and local address and certifying the photograph and signature of the labourer, which will be helpful in opening the Jan Dhan accounts.The accounts are being opened on a war-footing to ensure that salaries of workers can be credited to their accounts from December onwards.

The Central government, which is amalgamating labour laws into four major codes, will introduce a bill in the next Parliament session to introduce two of these codes, Minister of State for Labour and Employment Bandaru Dattatreya said here on Friday.After a meeting with members of textile industry associations at Southern India Mills Association(SIMA), the Minister told medipersons that the 44 labour laws would be amalgamated into code on wages, code on industrial relations, code on social security and code on safety, health, and working conditions. Tripartite consultations had been completed for the first two codes (wages and industrial relations). This would be discussed at an inter-ministerial meeting, the Cabinet and then introduced in Parliament.The idea behind amalgamating labour laws is to simplify and rationalise them. It would be a win-win situation for workers as well as employers. The bill for the next two codes would be introduced after conducting tripartite meetings, he said.The Centre had also brought down the number of registers that come under compliance of nine Central Acts, from 56 to five. We will develop software for the five common registers and it will be uploaded on the portal of the Ministry, he added. Further, since labour comes under the concurrent list, the Centre had given a Shop and Establishments model act to the State Governments.We are trying to complete activation of UAN numbers by the end of March this year, he added.The Employees Provident Fund Organisation and the Employees State Insurance Scheme are two big social security networks under the Ministry. The total number of subscribers under EPFO is 4.8 crore and the number of persons insured under ESI is 2.10 crore, he said.

It is just about two weeks since the Union Government launched insurance and pension schemes to provide social security cover to all and the Coimbatore district has already 3.1 lakh persons covered under the three schemes (group accident insurance, life insurance and pension scheme).The schemes are: Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (life insurance cover), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (group accident insurance) and Atal Pension Yojana (pension scheme). Since the pension scheme has age and income restriction, the demand seems to be relatively less for it compared to the insurance products.AwarenessDistrict Lead Bank Manager K. Krishnamoorthi says that all bank branches are creating awareness among the public  they have displayed details through banners, sent out personal text messages and also distributed handbills and brochures. Some banks even distribute applications to the customers who walk in every day for other banking transactions.The plan is to complete enrolment for these schemes by the end of this month and start providing the insurance cover from June 1.Bank officials say that in the case of rural areas, the banks are involving the Business Correspondents to sell the schemes.Though there does not seem to be specific efforts to reach out to those who do not have a pension or insurance cover, the officials say they plan to organise campaigns in the coming days targeting the economically weaker section in the urban areas so that they benefit from the schemes.

The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led governments proposal to merge labour laws that govern institutions such as Employees Provident Fund Organisation and Employees State Insurance Corporation to create a Labour Code on Social Security has run into resistance from Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swaymsevak Sangh (RSS).The BMS, which has in the past criticised the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) governments labour policies for leaving out unorganised workers from the ambit of social security programmes, has called for a rethink on the proposal. It has also demanded the creation of a separate ministry of social security, pointing out that four ministries now handle issues related to about 490 million workers.The RSS is also the ideological front of the BJP, but its affiliates have flagged concerns over the implementation of labour laws and proposed schemes.The Union ministry of labour and employment has proposed merging and rationalising 15 existing labour laws related to schemes such as the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952; the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961, and the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 to put in place an overarching Code after its passage by Parliament. It would lead to the creation of state-level social security schemes. While a uniform law on social security would be ideal, tinkering with the existing schemes such as the ESI and EPF is not advisable, said BMS president CK Saji Narayanan.In the new social security code, entire ESI and EPF funds will be divided among states. Employees working in them will have to work under states. The experience of state governments running ESI hospitals and facilities, and the Centre giving funds (to them) has proved to be a failure in many states, he said.Narayanan also cited the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Fund, overseen by states and mostly unused, to caution against the merger of social security schemes.The Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 is failing because there is no tripartite body to monitor it as in ESI or EPF, he said. Representatives of the government, employers and employees have a say in decision-making at the employees insurer and retirement savings body.Narayanan conceded that some provisions in the proposed Code such as universal insurance coverage, enrolment of unorganised workers in social security schemes, creation of a gratuity fund, and making the employer liable for social security contributions of contractual workers were positive.He wants the government to allocate at least 10% of the budget to social security.Compared to other countries, India has a very minimal budget allocation to social security even though 93% of our workforce is in the unorganised sector, Narayanan said. Without government funding, there will be cross subsidising, that is the entire ESI and EPF funds will be soon diverted and depleted to meet the benefits of SEC-IV category of workers in unorganised sector who need not pay contribution, he said.BMSs concerns are shared by trade unions such as the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), which is affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Tapan Sen, its general secretary, said that schemes such as EPF and ESI are well run and there is no reason why the government should dismantle functional social security institutions.We have objected to the proposed Code as it seeks to pool all the resources into a centralised fund which will be handled by the Centre, but the responsibility of delivering social security will lie with the state boards under the state governments, Sen said.Feedback from the unions is being examined by the labour ministry, which will present it to the cabinet soon.

Indias reforms started with stealth, and started from the top. It benefited those better off more. Poverty halved, but it took 18 years, compared to just six years in China.The Narendra Modi sarkars performance in the first year has at least five major achievements and one major miss. To ensure that this neglect does not become its Achilles heel, the Modi sarkar will have to focus on and initiate reforms in this weakest link in the chain  agriculture. Else, it will not let the Indian economy fly at the speed and height that Modi wants.The Modi sarkar is up for evaluation by everyone. It will be judged by how much it has worked on the promises made to the masses, and if it has put the economy on a sustainable growth path  the key issues in a democracy. Everyone has their own take. Here is mine.Last year, when the election campaign was at its peak, the headlines that dominated against the UPA government were to do with scams, high inflation and policy paralysis, which were adversely affecting Indias image internationally. All of that seems to have waned or disappeared. In that regard, one can count at least five hits of the Modi sarkar.Modis biggest hit, in my humble opinion, is making India count globally. He is busy sowing early India seeds in all the major global powers, be it the US, Japan, China, France or Germany. He has done so in our neighbourhood, too, from Bhutan and Nepal to Sri Lanka. He is travelling relentlessly, inviting businesses to Make in India, and easing visa formalities. Hopefully, these seeds of friendship and prospective investment will sprout soon, and Modi can harvest a rich crop in the ensuing years. The Opposition will, however, term it as a mere PR exercise.So far, one has not heard of any scams at the ministerial level in Lutyens Delhi. There may be, and have been, some goof-ups in policy, but no one has blamed these on corruption. The handling of the coal and spectrum auctions has brought reasonable transparency to the system, and will also help improve the governments fiscal health.Policy paralysis is fading fast. Several bills in Parliament bear testimony to this. Indeed, Parliament has been more productive than in the last few years, in terms of debate and clearing bills.Inflation in general  and food inflation in particular  has been brought under control, partly by policy and partly by luck, since global prices came tumbling down. Although there is scope to bring inflation down further, the Modi government now has time to breathe and plan for a long-term strategy to tame prices.On the social front, the high priority accorded to financial inclusion, leading to the unprecedented success of the Jan Dhan Yojana, is commendable. The programme could be a game changer if combined with Aadhaar and mobiles (JAM), and if most subsidies are directly transferred to the accounts of beneficiaries, as already done in the case of the gas subsidy. Three recently launched schemes the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and the Atal Pension Yojana  could together be a major leap in strengthening social security of the masses in the unorganised sector.There must, of course, be many other hits, especially in socio-political mobilisations like the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and in the BJPs membership crossing 10 crore. But let us focus on the economy here.What is the Modi sarkars biggest miss? It is agriculture and increasing farmer distress. There have been two bad seasons, and if the third also goes out of gear, the Modi sarkar may be in for trouble. Raising insurance compensation without putting the insurance system on a strong footing is not going to help much. Neither will soil health cards, if the current system of subsidies is not rationalised.While Modi made significant strides during his visit to China, landing 26 business deals worth $22 billion, none of of these was related to agriculture. But the biggest lesson that the Modi sarkar could learn from the China visit lies in agriculture. China produces more than 600 million tonnes of foodgrain, compared to Indias 251 million tonnes in FY2015, from a cropped area that is less than Indias and with a holding size that is almost half of Indias (1.15 hectares).Moreover, it is important for Indian policymakers to know that China started its economic reforms with agriculture, not industry. During 1978-84, the period which marks the beginning of Chinas economic reforms, the country abandoned the commune system and graduated to the household responsibility system in land. This is well known. What is not known widely is that China also liberated controls on agriculture pricing to a large extent. As a result, its agriculture grew by 7.1 per cent per annum, while farm incomes increased by 14 per cent per annually, and rural poverty halved in the six years between 78 and 84.It is this firing from the bottom, or starting with agriculture, that gave political legitimacy to economic reforms in China, as it benefited the largest number of people. This unprecedented rise in rural incomes also created huge demand for simple industrial products, ranging from televisions and toys to refrigerators. And this opportunity was grabbed by town and village enterprises, which led to the manufacturing revolution in China. The rest is history.Indias reforms started with stealth, and started from the top, correcting exchange rates and industrial licensing etc. It benefited those better off more. Poverty halved, but it took 18 years (1993-2011), compared to just six years in China, as India had to rely on the trickle-down effect.Investment in agriculture, especially irrigation, research and development in this sector, and one common all-India market, are critical. These will have high payoffs, politically and economically. Remember, the three BJP chief ministers who came back to power three times in a row (in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh) all headed states where agricultural GDP grew at more than 7 per cent per annum over a decade, that is, from 2001-02 to 2011-12. Nobody knows this better than Modi himself, as he has harvested the biggest political crop from it. If only he would now focus on this weakest link, and make sure that Indias growth story is put on a sustainable trajectory.The writer is Infosys chair professor for agriculture at Icrier.For all the latest Opinion News, download Indian Express App

The issue is not whether new employment is rapidly rising but where the vast majority of the residually-employed are being counted  in the formal or the informal sector. That requires a careful study. The issue is not whether new employment is rapidly rising but where the vast majority of the residually-employed are being counted  in the formal or the informal sector. That requires a careful study.In an article in January, Soumya Kanti Ghosh and Pulak Ghosh (Ghosh and Ghosh) claimed that seven million new jobs have been created in the formal sector. Their claim is based on the increase in registration under the Employees Provident Fund (EPFO), National Pension Scheme and Employees State Insurance Corporation. The government and the ruling party are now widely quoting this figure. In a column in this paper (Robust job growth, not fake news, IE, April 28), Surjit Bhalla has, by and large, endorsed this study. The Niti Aayog vice chairperson has discounted these figures slightly but added that 36 million jobs have perhaps been created by the Mudra Scheme and via self-employment in enterprises such as those pertaining to taxi aggregation and e-commerce.This runs counter to the impression that the shocks of demonetisation and implementation of GST resulted in the loss of many jobs. There were reports of retrenchment of workers and workers migrating from urban to rural areas to seek employment under MGNREGS, and youngsters not getting jobs commensurate to their skills.With no social security, few in India can afford to remain unemployed. Many who do not get formal employment often have no option but to carry headload or push carts. Hence, the issue at stake is under-employment. This author has been arguing for long that the sector in which a person is employed, formal or informal, matters much in reckoning employment figures. If there is an increase of seven million jobs, has there been a corresponding decline in informal sector jobs? If taxi aggregators are offering jobs, are these at the expense of traditional taxi drivers and private chauffeurs?Seven million new jobs on a base of about 50 million in the formal sector would represent a growth of 14 per cent. Is this likely when the economys growth rate plummeted after demonetisation and implementation of GST?Why have the EPF registrations shown a sharp increase? There are two possibilities. One, this is a one off increase due to special reasons. Second, it is a trend. But then how come the total employment in the formal sector is only 50 million? With a 14 per cent growth rate, employment would double in 5.2 years.Public sector employment has been stagnant at about 20 million. So, the increase of seven million would have taken place largely in the private formal sector. This would give a growth rate of about 23 per cent with employment doubling in 3.5 years, and there would be no dearth of decent jobs for the young.Two factors could explain the rise in EPFO registration. First, earlier only employers who had more than 20 employees on their rolls were required to register under the EPFO. In 2016, this was changed to employers employing more than 10 employees. Since in India, most firms employ less than 20 employees, the numbers of those eligible for enrolment would have shot up. So, this is just a definitional shift from informal to formal employment and does not represent an increase in total employment.The second factor is stated in the Union Budget 2018-19. The government has been encouraging enrolment in the Employee Provident Find since the last three years. It has offered concessions like, Contribution of 8.33 per cent of Employee Provident Fund (EPF) for new employees by the Government for three years. It has also promised, Contribution of 12 per cent of EPF for new employees for three years by the Government in sectors employing large number of people like textile, leather and footwear. Other concessions include, additional deduction to the employers of 30 per cent of the wages paid for new employees under the Income Tax Act. These concessions have now been extended for another three years. Thus, it would be highly profitable to the firms to employ new employees and register them under EPF.The organised sector is not hiring people directly. It has, increasingly, preferred to get labour on contract. It is likely that such contract labour from the unorganised sector is getting registered under the EPF due to the concessions offered by the government. Since the concessions are for new employees, it is possible that the older employees are being replaced by newer ones and being enrolled. If the older employees remain on the EPF rolls, then the number would just increase without new employment. Many analysts point to the lacunae in the EPF data. Ghosh and Ghosh do claim to have adjusted for them. But how successfully can this be done?It is claimed that those being counted are under 25; they are first timers at work. Most of the poor drop out of school before they reach Class 12 and start working. Only about 26 per cent of the relevant age group (18-25) are enrolled in higher education. Rest join the workforce, starting at the age of 15  even earlier. Fifteen years back, about 22 million were added to the population and would now be potential job seekers. But, if those who go for higher education and 75 per cent of the women are removed from this number, the job seekers today would be about 12 million unskilled and another three million with higher degrees. Most of these 15 million are employed in the unorganised sector, though some work indirectly for the organised sector. They may now be getting counted under the new scheme.The huge expansion of employment under Mudra Scheme claimed by the Niti Aayog vice-chairperson is unlikely given that the average size of the loan under this scheme is Rs 45,000. An average micro unit employs 1.7 persons with a capital of less than Rs 25 lakh. The loan may strengthen the capital base of the unit but would hardly generate any new jobs.The issue is not whether new employment is rapidly rising but where the vast majority of the residually-employed are being counted  in the formal or the informal sector. That requires a careful study.Karnataka Election Results 2018  Follow The Indian Express live coverage on Congress-JDS Government Alliance in Karnataka and real-time updates at indianexpress.comFor all the latest Opinion News, download Indian Express App

Good intention is half the story . Without efficient execution, even the best ideas fall through. This government's focus on financial inclusion has now made it possible for each of us to enable the simple earners around us to lead better lives. Here are the steps to take for those who would want to act now.First, open a bank account under the Jan Dhan Yojana. This is a zero balance account that can be opened with an Aadhar card. Voter ID, driving licence and a list of such documents that provide proof of identity and address can also be used.The account holder will get a RuPay debit card that enables ATM as well as merchant transactions. There is no need to ask for a cheque book but move up the tech ladder and use the mobile phone and debit card to transact. They can recharge their phones, buy bus and train tickets, remit money and make third-party pay ments with the card. Begin crediting the salaries of your staff into their bank accounts, by setting up electronic transfer.Second, make a gift of `342 a year for your staff. Once they have a bank account, they can buy a life insurance policy (Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana) that will pay out `2 lakh in the event of death of the policyholder (`330 is the annual premium). They can also buy an accident cover (Suraksha Bima Yojana) where `2 lakh will be paid for accidental death or permanent disability from accident (`12 is the annual premium). These policies work a year at a time. The product is designed for simple implementation. A single premium of `330 + `12 has to be paid by electronic transfer from a bank account, before 31 May, to provide life cover until 1 June next year. Set this up as an auto debit facility from the Jan Dhan bank account of your staff, and fund that account by setting up a transfer from your bank account.Third, allocate a small portion of the monthly salary that you pay for subscrip tion to the Atal Pension Yojana. This scheme enables non-income tax paying informal sector workers to earn a fixed pension after 60. Depending on the age of the person and the amount of pension desired, the contribution varies. For example, on behalf of your 30-year old driver you can contribute `577 a month to ensure that he receives `5,000 a month as pension after he turns 60. Pensions ranging from `1,000 to `5,000 a month can be enabled under this scheme.With this combination of products, you can secure several easy benefits for you and your staff. First, they begin to develop the banking habit. None of the contributions can be made in any format other than an electronic transfer from a bank account. This means, you can now pay salaries into their bank accounts and the auto debits will keep the account active. Second, the incentive to make the contribution regularly is high due to the defined benefit they understand easily .Your role is to ensure that the account is funded to enable the subscriptions.Third, the paperwork is minimal. Once the KYC is completed using the Aadhar card, there is no other procedure to follow. The bank account number will be the only one to remember, with all the products linked to it. Updates and alerts will come into a registered cell number.How can you make the most out of this bundled offering of the government?Make financial inclusion a mission in your neighbourhood. Ensure that your housing society's staff is covered. Make these products your tool for giving. Tap into segments where a large number of informal workers earn wages and work with no financial security. Instead of making a donation to a charity whose expense ratios keep you worried, create a giving plan that is implemented through the financial inclusion framework of the government.The design of these products is such that they can only get better with volume.The government has asked for high penetration of these schemes and given the targets for achievement, these products will become well entrenched with time.The commissions and charges are small and bundled into the product and there is no scope for mis-selling. The product is simple in design and the literature easy to understand. The task of the enabling agent, distributor or bank is to mobilise subscribers and earn a steady income for that. This project will use technology to streamline money transactions like never before. However, the shift from consumables and goods to money in the bank account may have unexpected consequences. Rice and dal in the hands of the woman of the house would feed stomachs, while money in the bank account might not be put to the same desired use.If women recognise the merits and come out to take charge of the bank account, the social benefits of these programmes will be far higher. Begin your financial inclusion efforts with your maid today .The author is MD, Centre for Investment Education and Learning

District Administration and State Bank of Hyderabad : Union Minister for Civil Aviation P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju to launch Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Dr. Y.V.S. Murty Auditorium, Andhra University Engineering College Grounds, 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.Centre for Management and Technology: Convocation  2015, Hotel Four Points by Sheraton, 4:30 p.m.Mrs. A.V.N. College: Intellectual meet on Strategies for quality improvement of the college, Correspondent chamber, College premises, 11 a.m.Visaklandhra Mahasabha : Roundtable on Autonomy, Visakhapatnam Public Library, 10:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.Lions Club Visakhapatnam : Body balancing therapy camp, Lions Club, Ramnagar, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.Impressions-Expressions : Solo exhibition of paintings by artist A. Gunavathi, Visakha Museum, Beach Road, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.

NEW DELHI: June 12, 2015, DHNS: 3:18 ISTA day ahead of Finance Minister Arun Jaitley calling a review meeting of public sector bank (PSB) chiefs, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has written to the Finance Ministry urging it to increase capital infusion into the PSBs.In the annual Budget for 2015-16, the government had announced a capital infusion of Rs 7,940 crore into the state-run banks, which is nearly half of the amount committed in the Budget for 2014-15.We have been suggesting to the Finance Ministry from time to time that the public sector banks need more capital than what budget has indicated. We have been raising this issue at various discussions and forums and it was also formally written by Reserve Bank of India, RBI Deputy Governor S S Mundra said here.Budgeted amount which is over Rs 7,000 crore will not be adequate for enabling the bank for clean up of the books, he said. The RBI in its monetary policy statement on June 2 had highlighted the need for targeted capital infusion of bank capital into scheduled public sector banks to ensure adequate capital flows to the productive sectors as investment picks up and to clean up stressed assets in their balance sheets.The heads of PSU banks will be meeting the Finance Minister on Friday for an annual review of the performance. Jaitley is expected to review the annual financial performance of the PSBs during the financial year 2014-15. He will also review the performance of banks with regard to their performance in overall credit growth with particular reference to agriculture credit, MSE credit, education loans, housing loans and non-performing assets of the banks.Jaitley is also expected to review the progress of three social security schemes  Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) among others.He will also review the progress made with regard to Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency (MUDRA), expeditious disposal of public grievances and Credit Enhancement Guarantee Scheme for Scheduled Castes among others. On their part, the PSU banks heads are expected to pitch for the need for higher capital infusion.

PANAJI: In a move to encourage industries in the state to recruit Goans, the government has offered to subsidise the salary paid to Goan employees, offering to reimburse up to Rs 7,000 per Goan employed by these companies. Only new companies, or companies which began after 2007 but did not avail of benefits, can apply for the scheme, provided 80% of their staff is Goan.Chief minister Manohar Parrikar , who also holds the industry portfolio, gave his approval for the incentive , along with six other schemes which will be offered under the Goa State Incentives to Encourage Investments Scheme, 2017.The approval for the scheme comes just days after Parrikar informed the assembly that it was not possible to shut down or penalise industrial units that dont give preference to Goans.Companies that hire 80% Goans will get 100% benefit as the employer will get reimbursed for the salary paid to Goans. The scheme also provides a definition for Goans, an official, who has seen the approved scheme documents, said.The government will monitor the scheme by cross-checking the employee rolls submitted by each company with the Employees State Insurance department and Employees Provident Fund Organisation.The scheme also offers benefits to those companies whose employee rolls comprise 60-80% Goans. The incentives for those who hire between 60-80% locals will be calculated on pro-rata basis but less than 60% (local employment) and they get nothing, a source said.With unemployment figures for the state hovering between 7.5% and 8.8%, the state government is trying to incentivise companies that hire Goans. Parrikar has stated in the floor of the House that realistic data of unemployed youth was not available.The schemes should get notified by year-end or at least by January 15, a member of the committee that helped draft the schemes said.An official of the Directorate of Industries Trade and Commerce (DITC) said this is not the first time that the state government has tried to incentivise companies to hire Goans. In 2008, under the Digambar Kamat-led Congress government, the industries department had formulated the Goa State Employment Subsidy Scheme for the Industries, 2008 which offered subsidies to companies that hired Goans. As per that scheme, employees who were paid a maximum of Rs 10,000 were eligible for the scheme.On Tuesday, Parrikar also gave his approval for a scheme to cover the costs incurred by companies that filed patents for new technology or manufacturing process. The government has offered to reimburse the application fee that companies will pay to register their patents.The scheme is along the lines of a scheme under the Goa IT Investment Policy which is applicable for IT and ITES companies.The government also wants to encourage companies to adopt modern and energy saving technology and equipment and has framed a scheme to support companies that invest in green or renewable technology, a source said.If any company is taking benefit under any scheme, the company cannot take benefit under some other scheme, a DITC official said.All the above schemes will be notified and implemented under the Goa State Incentives to Encourage Investments Scheme, 2017, an umbrella scheme that received cabinet approval on September 28.The scheme also provides for a task force committee to scrutinise applications and recommendations under individual schemes.

Pragathi Krishna Gramin Bank will launch an awareness campaign from Wednesday on the Union governments social security schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and the Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana.It will be flagged off by R. Ravikumar, chairman of the bank, at the Ballari head office and simultaneously by regional heads at their respective offices. Bank regional manager K.R. Ravindra told presspersons here on Tuesday that the campaign would also focus on distributing ATM cards to account holders on the spot.All the 645 branches in 11 districts in the State will participate. Each branch will form two teams equipped with information and propaganda material and they will be despatched to villages. Each branch will participate in the campaign for a day and cover at least three villages, he said. In Raichur district, there are 66 branches and the campaign would last 66 days.Mr. Ravindra said that the bank had branches in Ballari, Raichur, Koppal, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Yadgir, Shivamogga, Chitradurga, Davanagere, Kolar and Chikkaballapur districts.

Safety match workers and members of All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) tried to lay seige to Kovilpatti Revenue Divisional Office on Thursday.S. Alagumuthu Pandian, district secretary, CPI, who led the agitation, said the employers should increase workers wages, which had not been increased in the last seven years. The workers should be brought under Employees Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance. Drinking water, rest rooms, toilet and cradle facilities should be made available to them at their places of work.Later, Kovilpatti RDO, Anitha, Tahsildar Johnson Devasahayam and other officials from Revenue Department held talks with the workers.

Chief Minister Siddaramaiah will launch the three social security schemes that will be flagged off nationally by the Prime Minister in New Delhi on Saturday.The Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, or accident insurance, and the Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana for life insurance, each offer Rs. 2 lakh cover for an annual premium as low as Rs. 12 and Rs. 330. The Atal Pension Yojana is the third scheme. They will be effective from June 1.State Bank of India chairperson Arundhati Bhattacharya and State-level Bankers Committee convener and SyndicateBank executive director T.K. Srivastava will be among those present.Canara Bank tie-upsCanara Bank executive directors P.S. Rawat and Harideesh Kumar B. on Thursday said the bank had entered into an MoU with LIC and United India Insurance Co. to implement the schemes for its savings bank account holders.

The Centres push to transfer salaries of informal sector workers to bank accounts has made an impact in Gurgaon as more than 2,300 new accounts were opened in the last four days.Industries and construction sites are organising camps to open savings accounts for workers. However, there is reluctance among workers who feel bank accounts are useless as they do not have considerable savings.Industrial associations have pitched in to spread awareness among small-scale industries and labour contractors to get bank accounts opened for their employees. As many as 300 camps have been held since Saturday, with banks receiving more than 5,000 applications from workers for new bank accounts.The Centre has been pushing industries to open bank accounts for workers so that their full salaries are deposited in accounts and the idea of a cashless economy can be materialised.All industries have been directed to open bank accounts and start depositing salaries in those accounts, Ramesh Chandra Nayak, lead district manager, Gurgaon, said.He said there are a total of 186 bank mitras (assistants) in Gurgaon district of which 39 are active in rural areas. He said with the help of these assistants, the operators at government common service centres would be trained in cashless transactions.But workers have their reservations about opening bank accounts. What will I do with an account when I have no savings? Our salary is so less that we spend most of it on meeting daily expenses and send the remaining to our villages, Uday Singh Gaya in Bihar, working in an industrial unit in Sector 18, said.Deepak Maini, general secretary of Industrial Development Association, Gurgaon, said there is a lack of awareness about bank accounts among workers in small-scale industries. We are approaching small-scale industries and labour contractors to open bank accounts for workers, he said.Some small-scale industries and firms are also approaching associations to facilitate opening of accounts. Banks are holding camps in large-scale firms but there is a need to cater to small-scale industries too. We will coordinate with banks for this, Praveen Yadav, president, Gurgaon Udyog Association, said.Data of workers without bank accounts soughtThe lead district managers office has written to the district labour department, provident fund officials, and employees state insurance corporation officials to collect data from employers about bank accounts of employees. The information about the number of employees who have bank accounts and who do not have bank accounts has been sought. Information about banks and liaison officers is also needed so that the exact number of workers without accounts could be assessed, Nayak said.The city has been divided into three zones for collections of details. The labour department will collect details from those who are on the right side of Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway from Delhi border to Rajiv Chowk, the Employees Provident Fund Organisation will collect details from the left side, and the Employees State Insurance Corporation will collect details in the area from Rajiv Chowk to Manesar.Box:November 26 - 16 camps - 257 applicationsNovember 27 - 57 camps - 1059 applications - 70 accounts openedNovember 28 - 76 camps - 2125 applications - 1343 accounts openedNovember 29 - 160 camps - 1674 applications - 921 accounts opened

Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said the States could not complain about shortage of funds (for undertaking relief measures) as their share in Central taxes had been increased.For the first time, the States share has been increased by 10 per cent from 32 per cent to 42 per cent, the Minister said.Of late, the Uttar Pradesh government had been complaining that the Centre was not releasing funds for relief to farmers who suffered huge crop losses due to recent unseasonal rains and hailstorm.Mr. Singh, who is a former Chief Minister of U.P., said the State sends a memorandum seeking funds to the Centre  according to Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav, a memorandum of over Rs.7000 crore has already been sent to the Centre. The receipt of the memorandum is followed by a Central team visiting the affected areas and the money is given after the report is submitted, he told journalists here.The Minister said immediate relief is given from the State Contingency Fund.He credited the Narendra Modi government with taking important steps related to relief measures. As compared to the earlier benchmark of 50 per cent crop loss, compensation to farmers would be given even if they have suffered 33 per cent crop loss.It has also been decided that wheat damaged by the vagaries of weather would be bought and compensation would be increased by one and half times.Financial inclusivityOn the NDA government, which is about to complete one year in office, Mr. Singh said its biggest achievement had been the financial inclusivity of the poor with 14.70 crore account holders  a world record  under the Pradhan Mantri Jandhan Yojana.Mr. Singh mentioned the three schemes  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana  which were launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kolkata on Saturday. These schemes were simultaneously launched by Mr. Singh, along with U.P. Governor Ram Naik at Indira Gandhi Pratishthan.Now, not a single person would be denied social and economic security, Mr. Singh stated.Black moneyOn the issue of bringing back black money stashed away in foreign banks, Mr. Singh said talks were on with the countries. A Bill for preventing the generation of black money would be tabled in Parliament. A Bill on preventing the transfer of black money was already in the House.

More than Rs. 27,000 crore are lying as inoperative funds with the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) and the beneficiary workers would be identified and the amounts refunded, Union Minister for Labour and Employment Bandaru Dattatreya said here on Sunday.Speaking to presspersons after visiting Nacharam ESI Hospital here, Mr. Dattatreya said these amounts were languishing as inoperative funds for more than four years and the process of identifying the workers to whom the amounts belong, has been initiated.The amounts include workers and employers contribution and we will also seek the assistance of trade unions in identifying the rightful owners of the money, he said.The Union government was also taking steps to start the Panch Deep project which would bring data on all the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) insured persons and their employers on single platform for e-governance.We will be spending Rs.1,900 crore for the project which will document all relevant data of more than 1.70 crore insured persons (IPs), he said.On ESIC, the Union Minister also requested the governments of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to form respective State executive committees so that required administrative powers could be handed to them.A decision on doing away with the project to start 13 medical and dental colleges for which Rs.10,000 crore were already spent, was taken and the State governments were asked to take over the facilities. They have been asked to take a decision by January 31 and if they are not forthcoming, we will review and come up with required policy, he said.During the inspection of the hospital, Mr. Dattatreya was greeted with complaints on the staff shortage and inadequate facilities.Hospital authorities explained that of the 524 sanctioned posts, 155 posts were lying vacant including 50 nursing posts. Some nurses complained on their cases being ignored for promotions.

Powerloom owners in Solapur, on an indefinite strike for the last 20 days over Employees Provident Fund (EPF) rules, started running their powerlooms on Friday, a day after they called off the strike.The strike was called off after a meeting of the MoS for Labour and Guardian Minister Vijaykumar Deshmukh with powerloom owners, and officials of the labour and EPF departments. In the meeting, it was decided that big powerloom owners should register with EPF offices on their own to give EPF benefits to powerloom workers. The powerloom owners have been given three months to submit relevant documents to the EPF office.Powerloom owners have certain issues in submitting the documents. So, they sought three months time. The big powerloom owners have been asked to register with EPF office on their own. After these decisions, the powerloom owners agreed to call off their strike, said Deshmukh.He said powerloom owners held a meeting with Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday. The CM promised to set up a state-level committee comprising powerloom owners and workers on the EPF issue in Bhiwandi, Malegaon, Ichalkaranji and Solapur areas, said Deshmukh, who had led the delegation of powerloom owners to the CM. He added that the CM has also promised to take up the issue with Union labour and textile ministries.After the EPF office in Solapur ordered 17 powerloom units owned by one family to make EPF applicable with retrospective effect from 2002, the Powerloom Owners Association (POA) comprising more than 13,000 units has been on an indefinite strike since October 7. This rendered more than 42,000 workers jobless for 20 days, including Diwali.EPF is not applicable to the powerloom industry as every unit is a separate entity employing less than 10 workers. Also, the units should not be clubbed together for EPF. Now, the CM has agreed to set up a state-level committee and we have been given three months to submit documents. So, we started the powerlooms from Friday, said Pentappa Gaddam, president of the POA.EPF is applicable to units employing 20 or more people.Powerloom workers unions say they will continue to insist on EPF implementation. Powerloom workers are not covered under the EPF though they have been working for more than three decades now. They are not entitled to benefits from the Employees State Insurance Corporation or other social security benefits. So, we will take this fight to its logical end and move the High Court if required, said Narasayya Adam, a labour leader, who is part of the Joint Action Committee of powerloom workers.Officials from the EPF office said that powerlooms have not been given any relief from EPF rules. The minutes of the meeting with Solapur Guardian Minister will be sent to the headquarters in Delhi and further action will be taken based on their directions, said an EPF official.For all the latest Mumbai News, download Indian Express App

SyndicateBank on Thursday launched a Yakshagana CD to educate people on various schemes of the Union government.The schemes covered included financial inclusion, Prime Ministers Jan Dhan Yojana, Prime Ministers Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana, Prime Ministers Suraksha Bima Yojana, Prime Ministers MUDRA Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.The CD was launched in Kannada and soon it will be translated into Hindi, all regional languages and into English so as to educate the common people of entire India, a release from the bank said. Yakshagana scholar M. Prabhakara Joshy released the CD.

Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment Bandaru Dattatreya said the Central government has contemplated bringing all establishments employing more than 10 workers under the purview of Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) and Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO).Inaugurating the new building of ESIC Sub-Regional Office here on Saturday, Mr. Dattatreya said necessary changes were being made in the labour laws to ensure that the labourers got their due in terms of wages and an improvement in working conditions.Due priority was given to modernisation of the ESI hospitals which were the only means for crores of workers in the unorganized sector to avail cost effective treatment for various diseases.The Centre was prepared to release funds as and when proposals for upgrading of ESI hospitals were received from the States.Grievances of labourers were being redressed online, contrary to the old time-taking methods.This was beneficial to the workers who could not spend much on getting issues sorted out, Mr. Dattatreya added.Union Minster of Urban Development M. Venkaiah Naidu said the government has taken various policy initiatives for welfare of the masses.Prime Minister Narendra Modi did many things in just one year compared to the policy paralysis and indecisiveness that marked the UPA regime, he said.Minister for Health Kamineni Srinivas and ESIC Director General Anil Kumar Agarwal were among those present on the occasion.Later, addressing media persons, Mr. Dattatreya said efforts were on to guarantee payment of minimum wages by making amendments to the legislations concerned.A comprehensive e-Governance plan was being implemented for welfare of workers in both organised and unorganised sectors, he added.Priority is given to modernisation of ESI hospitals.Bandaru DattatreyaUnion Minister of State for Labour and Employment

NEW DELHI: In line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's plan to nurture start-ups, the labour ministry has directed that new age ventures should not be inspected or asked to file returns for three years under nine labour-related laws, including Employees Provident Fund Act and Employees State Insurance Act.The start-ups would be exempted from inspection under the Building andOother Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, Payment of Gratuity Act and Contract Labour Act.The new age ventures will also be exempted from filing returns under the Industrial Disputes Act, Building and Other Construction Workers Act, Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, Contract Labour Act, EPF and ESI Act. In a letter, labour secretary Shankar Aggarwal said, "Promoting start-ups would need special hand-holding and nurturing.Thus, such ventures may be allowed to self certify compliance with the labour laws."

NEW DELHI: Denouncing the violence against women, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said one-stop- centres and mobile helplines will be set up for women in distress."Our heads hang in shame when we hear of instances of crime against women. We must walk shoulder-to-shoulder to end all forms of discrimination or injustice against women," he said in a message on the occasion of International Women's Day."Today, we renew our pledge to make women an equal and integral part of our development journey. My government has initiated several measures aimed at bringing about a positive change in the lives of women. That is central to our vision of India's progress and a life of dignity and opportunity for all our citizens," the Prime Minister said.Seeking the support of all in transforming the vision into reality, he said, "The Government is setting up one-stop-centres that will provide assistance, legal advice and psychological counseling to women who face violence or abuse."The Government is also commencing a mobile helpline to enable women to dial 181 for access to counselling and referral services," he said."Through various schemes & initiatives, our Government remains fully committed to bringing a positive change in the lives of women," the Prime Minister said, while saluting the "indomitable courage & outstanding achievements of women on International Women's Day".He noted that the Union Budget had unveils broadbased social security schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana which will benefit women in a big way.The 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' Yojana seeks to usher in a paradigm shift in attitudes towards the girl child and places emphasis on educating the girl child while the Sukanya Samruddhi Yojana will provide support for marriage and education of young women, he said.

Senior Congress leader and former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Wednesday noted that extraordinary times require extraordinary solutions and suggested that the Centre announce a 1 lakh crore package for micro, small and medium enterpises (MSMEs) to be able to pay wages to 11 crore workers and a pay cheque protection programme for lower income groups in other private sector businesses.In an online press conference, Mr Chidambaram also cautioned the Centre against entertaining any notion of imposing a financial emergency [under Article 360 of the Constitution] that would further limit the financial powers of the State governments.The Union government should prepare an exit strategy for the lockdown, address the problems of migrant workers and provide financial assistance to the States, he stated.Also read: Congress accuses Centre of weakening banking architectureFinancial emergencyI think even to utter those words at this point of time would be inappropriate. I dont want to use the phrase financial Emergency and I hope we are not pushed into that. If the government acts promptly, wisely and boldly by taking into account the advice of wise economists, we can avoid a financial emergency, he replied to a query. We should do everything to avoid a financial emergency because it would mean that whatever little powers are there with the State governments are taken away.Also read: Coronavirus lockdown: How can the poor survive without cash in hands, asks ChidambaramMaking a strong case for the government supporting the 6.3 crore MSMEs, he said: We urge the Prime Minister to look at the Congress proposal and immediately announce the implementation of two specific recommendations: Rs 1 lakh crore wage protection assistance to help the MSMEs pay wages and salaries for April and Rs 1 lakh crore credit guarantee fund for the MSMEs that will help them to go to the banks and borrow money.He added, For the non-MSMEs, we urge the government to announce a pay cheque protection programme, similar to the one announced in the United States. This is not a legislation but a financial assistance package.Mr. Chidambaram estimated that the government would require about Rs 15,000 crore to help protect the pay of one crore people whose annual incomes is less than Rs 3.5 lakhs.Time is of the essence. In the absence of a clear signal of assistance from the government during these extremely difficult times, the private sector will be forced to resort to large-scale retrenchments and lay-offs, which will devastate the livelihoods of hundreds of millions of people, he said. Private firms may be given waiver of employers contributions to the employees provident fund (EPF) and the employees state insurance (ESI) for the next three months.Mr. Chidambaram also strongly argued that the government should borrow for additional spending and not be bogged down by the proposed target of keeping the fiscal deficit to 3.5 per cent of the GDP.Extraordinary times require extraordinary remedies, extraordinary solutions. Look back to the 2008 international financial crisis. If the central banks around the world had followed these conventional rules, the economy of the world would have collapsed. They took what are called unconventional measures, he pointed out.Mr. Chidambaram welcomed the Centres decision to allow stranded workers and students to return to their homes. This has been a demand of the Congress since mid-April. Buses alone will not be sufficient. It is better to run sanitised trains point-to-point to move the large numbers who desire to migrate back to their home States, he said.

It is just about two weeks since the Union Government launched insurance and pension schemes to provide social security cover to all and the Coimbatore district has already 3.1 lakh persons covered under the three schemes (group accident insurance, life insurance and pension scheme).The schemes are: Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (life insurance cover), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (group accident insurance) and Atal Pension Yojana (pension scheme). Since the pension scheme has age and income restriction, the demand seems to be relatively less for it compared to the insurance products.AwarenessDistrict Lead Bank Manager K. Krishnamoorthi says that all bank branches are creating awareness among the public  they have displayed details through banners, sent out personal text messages and also distributed handbills and brochures. Some banks even distribute applications to the customers who walk in every day for other banking transactions.The plan is to complete enrolment for these schemes by the end of this month and start providing the insurance cover from June 1.Bank officials say that in the case of rural areas, the banks are involving the Business Correspondents to sell the schemes.Though there does not seem to be specific efforts to reach out to those who do not have a pension or insurance cover, the officials say they plan to organise campaigns in the coming days targeting the economically weaker section in the urban areas so that they benefit from the schemes.The plan is to complete enrolment for these schemes by the end of this month and start providing the insurance cover from June 1.

LUCKNOW: How do you identify an aspiring bureaucrat who could be in sync with the vision of the party in power? This can perhaps be best learnt from the preliminary examination of UP Provincial Civil Services exam that was conducted on September 24. Lakhs of aspirants found that the question paper had a strong reverberation of the schemes and programmes launched by the Narendra Modi government.Flagship schemes of the NDA government, including Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY), Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY), Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and Swachh Bharat Mission, featured prominently in the PCS examination paper.While the positives were highlighted to a large extent, those who set the question paper decided to keep the schemes that got criticised  demonetisation and GST implementation  out of the ambit of the exam."Even I feel that the central government schemes have been projected quite a lot in the provincial services examination," a member of Uttar Pradesh Public Services Commission headquartered in Allahabad told TOI on the condition of anonymity.Speaking about the question paper, Kumar, a candidate appearing for the third time for the PSC exam at Allahabad, said, "It is an attempt to glorify the government's achivements." Recalling exams of previous years, Kumar added that he has never seen a question paper dominated by central government programmes.The prominence of the Centre's schemes could be seen in the question in which the candidate was asked to arrange schemes in chronological order of their launch. The options included Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, Digital Gender Atlas for Advancing Girls' Education, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana.Yet another question that required candidates to list schemes in chronological order included Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and Make in India. The question on Swadesh Darshan Scheme asked aspirants development of which circuit  Heritage, Sufi, Ramayana, Coastal  was not included in the scheme.Urja Ganga Gas Pipeline Project and requirements of Startup India also got an honourable mention in a couple of questions.Asked about dedication given to the Modi government this year, UP Public Service Commission secretary Jagdish Tripathi expressed his inability to comment on the issue. He told TOI that the commission has no role in setting the examination paper and people are hired from outside for the purpose.This year, 2.46 lakh candidates appeared for about 400 vacant PCS posts for the year 2017-18. The PCS examination has 20% horizontal reservation for women candidates.

NEW DELHI: The labour ministry is set to flag off a new model for providing social security cover to unorganized sector workers besides a new on-the job training module to upgrade skills. For this, it has sought budgetary assistance of around Rs 400 crore.Sources said labour minister Bandaru Dattatreya has sought initial funding of Rs 100-200 crore for Recognition of Prior Learning, a scheme that will not only provide on-the-job training for close to 125 trades such as factory workers, carpenters and plumbers but also give them daily wages during the 20-30 day programme.As part of the proposed social security net for unorganized sector workers, many of whom keep moving from one place to another, the labour ministry has proposed Unique Labour Identification Number (U-LIN), which will enable them to access health facilities across the country. The number will be modeled on the Unique Account Number for the Employees Provident Fund Organization that assures portability of retirement savings even if a worker switches jobs.Simultaneously, the ministry is "synchronizing" three schemes - Rashtriya Swastha Bima Yojana, Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana and Old Age Pension - to make it more effective. The U-LIN plan is expected to require about Rs 200 crore annually and the plan is to include housing and scholarships for education of unorganized sector workers. When contacted, Dattatreya did not comment on theproposals, citing Budget-related confidentiality. "Unorganized sector workers make up over 90% of our workforce and two things are very important - social security and health coverage. We are trying to address both the issues."The minister said initially the focus will be on construction and 'beedi' workers but in a phased manner the ambit of the scheme proposed social security netwill be widened to cover all the 43 crore unorganized sector workers. In the past too the government had launched programmes such as the National Pension Scheme targeted at unorganized sector workers but had ended up focusing on the better-off sections of society.

The opening of more than 11.5 crore bank accounts under the Jan Dhan Yojana (JDY) in less than a year is no doubt a tremendous achievement.Usha ThoratIt has been nearly 10 years since the term financial inclusion started gaining currency in Indian banking. Today, financial inclusion is a global buzzword and part of the Millennium Development and G-20 Goals.The achievements over the last 10 years have been considerable. There has been an increase in banking access points (through physical branches, business correspondents, mobile phones and the internet) and the use of technology-driven solutions and intermediaries for scaling up. Know your customer rules have been simplified, facilitated by Aadhaar, and there have also been phenomenal improvements in the payment systems. The opening of more than 11.5 crore bank accounts under the Jan Dhan Yojana (JDY) in less than a year is no doubt a tremendous achievement.The three social security schemes launched by the government  the Atal Pension Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana  are aimed at providing security in old age as well as accident and life insurance. They have been designed in a way that is simple to understand and lend depth to financial inclusion. These policies do not have any element of subsidy, which makes them sustainable. Handholding JDY customers to enrol in these schemes will be a singular service that bankers could perform for society. Another initiative is the Mudra (Micro Units Development Refinance Agency) Bank. To start with, it will be a subsidiary of Sidbi (Small Industries Development Bank of India) and is intended to enhance credit access for small entrepreneurs in the unorganised sector. But in order to be a catalyst for inclusive growth, financial inclusion has to be viable and sustainable.The decision to move towards transferring subsidies and entitlements directly to beneficiaries bank accounts is welcome. However, banks must be fully reimbursed for the cost of such transactions  capital and operational expenditure  if they are to be sustainable. From the perspective of the poor, the benefits of using such accounts should outweigh the costs of accessing them. Mobile technology has penetrated rural areas and e-commerce is growing by leaps and bounds. However, mobile banking has not grown in the same way. This is something that needs to be given a push, as part of sustainable financial inclusion.Currently, cash dominates the payments system. The cost of moving and storing cash is huge. We need to move towards becoming a cash-lite economy. The use of mobile phones for payments, e-wallets as well as swipe and contactless cards is the way forward but there have to be incentives to go there. There are worries that becoming part of the electronic payments system may trigger roving enquiries from investigative authorities. How can we incentivise e-payments and e-money? Some innovative thinking is clearly called for. Simultaneously, cash management systems have to be made more efficient.Financial inclusion can emerge as a profitable opportunity only if banks are able to mobilise savings. A popular misconception is that the poor do not save. Field evidence indicates the exact opposite. The poor are borrowing as well as saving. Huge amounts of savings, mostly from the poor, are mobilised by fly-by-night operators and are vulnerable to loss. Banks need to woo the low-income customer who has taken to the mobile phone in a big way. But they need appropriate products that can be easily understood and accessed with little documentation. Usage can be facilitated through visual and pictorial methods. ATMs should be more user-friendly and employ audio-visual communication methods. Business correspondents are a huge help for customers who are not used to formal banking and can be a win-win delivery model if appropriate incentive structures are worked out.Meaningful financial inclusion can only take place when loan products are offered. But there is some reluctance to do this. Why? First, there could be attitudinal reluctance to lend to the poor. Second, it is perhaps the case that returns on these loan products are not sufficient to compensate banks for the fund, transaction, risk and capital costs. Are there apprehensions in the minds of bankers, especially in the public sector, that if sustainable rates of interest were to be charged, it would not be politically acceptable? There could also be concern about the recovery of such loans.For the microfinance sector, RBI guidelines specify that interest rates should not exceed the cost of funds plus margins of 10 per cent or 2.75 times the base rate of the five largest commercial banks, whichever is lower. This implies interest rates of 22 to 28 per cent for the borrower.So what is the appropriate and reasonable rate for financial-inclusion loans that commercial banks can charge? Due to economies of scope and scale in commercial banks, the break-even rate of interest, to cover costs and risks and leave them with small profits, would probably be between 18 and 22 per cent. This would incentivise them to invest in scaling up operations and compensate business correspondents better as well as allow them to invest in credit-plus services such as financial literacy and capacity building.Timely and adequate availability of credit is more important than its cost. Unless there is a change in public policy perceptions that loans to the poor have to be at very low rates, financial inclusion can never be sustainable. It is well known that the poor currently access informal markets at rates ranging from 36 per cent (for collateralised loans) to 120 per cent for non-collateralised loans. In this context, so long as commercial banks are transparent about their rates of interest, there should be public acceptance of their charging commercial rates that cover their costs and leave some margin. Rates of 18 to 22 per cent per annum should not be regarded as usurious.Another concern of banks is loan recovery. Risk-mitigation products like insurance will help in better recovery and more such products need to be devised. In general, the poor fail to repay loans only when they are struck by calamity. The government should not announce write-offs and should actively promote a credit culture.The writer is a former deputy governor of the Reserve Bank of IndiaFor all the latest Opinion News, download Indian Express App

Finance Minister Arun Jaitley will meet heads of PSU banks on Monday to discuss various issues, including bad loans and interest rate reduction, in light of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) lowering its policy rate in September.The performance review meeting of public sector banks (PSBs) will also take stock of the credit flow to productive sectors to spur economy and review of Indradhanush, the seven-pronged strategy to revive PSBs, sources said.The government in August announced the programme, which includes Rs.70,000-crore capital infusion in PSBs in four years, starting with Rs.25,000 crore this fiscal, and measures to de-stress banks by introducing governance reforms.The gross NPAs of PSBs rose to 6.03 per cent at the end of June 2015, as against 5.20 per cent in March 2015.According to the sources, the meeting is expected to review credit offtake by sectors such as home, education and corporates as well as the progress made under the Jan Dhan Yojana and Prime Ministers social security schemes, among other issues.The meeting will also examine what steps have been taken by State-owned banks in the aftermath of Rs.6,100-crore Bank of Baroda black money remittance case to avoid such episodes in future.Mr. Jaitley is expected to review the interest rate cut by banks following reduction in the key policy rate by RBI in September.RBI in its September bi-monthly monetary policy review had cut interest rate by a higher-than-expected 0.5 per cent.The benchmark repurchase (repo) rate has subsequently come down from 7.25 per cent to 6.75 per cent, the lowest in four-and-a-half years.The progress of three social security schemes, namely Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY), and the Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency (MUDRA), among others, is also likely to feature in the discussions.According to an official statement, the major thrust areas of review would be priority sector lending, second quarter results, financial literacy, PMMY and insurance and pension schemes.Apart from these, Ministry of MSME will discuss issues related to MSME financing, while Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) will discuss status of commitment given by banks for funding renewable energy projects in the next five years, it said. During the review meeting, Ministry of Food Processing would discuss utilisation of special fund of Rs.2,000 crore set-up by the Ministry of Finance to provide affordable credit to designated Food Parks (including Mega Food parks) and food processing units.Ministry of Textiles will discuss implementation of revival, reform and restructuring (RRR) package for handloom sector and institutional credit to sericulture, while Ministry of Rural Development will discuss SHG Credit Linkage Plan, among others.The meeting would be attended by Minister of State for Finance, RBI Deputy Governor, Secretary, Department of Financial Services, Secretary or senior officials of Ministries of MSME, MNRE, food processing, textiles and rural development, among others.  PTIThe Finance Minister will discuss various issues, including bad loans and interest rate reduction, in light of the Reserve Bank of India lowering its policy rate in September

Jan 02, 2017, New Delhi, PTI 22:23 ISTIn a bid to strengthen capital base of public sector banks (PSBs), the government has allowed 12 lenders to raise nearly Rs 3,000 crore via preferential shares over and above the Rs 22,915 crore capital support committed to them in July last year.The Finance Ministry granted approval to 12 proposals of PSBs to raise a sum of Rs 2,914.038 crore through preferential allotment and permission given to raise Rs 200 crore by United Bank of India through QIP mode. The government had already infused a sum of Rs 25,000 crore in 19 PSBs during FY 2015-16.A budgetary provision of Rs 25,000 crore has been made for 2016-17 and the government has already allocated Rs 22,915 crore to 13 PSBs on July 19, 2016, of which, 75% has been allocated in first tranche, while the remaining amount will be released on assessment of the performance of PSBs, the Department of Finance said in its year-end review for 2016 on Sunday.As regards consolidation in the banking space, it said that the Union Cabinet, in June 2016, had approved the proposal of acquisition of assets and liabilities of subsidiary banks i.e. State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur, State Bank of Hyderabad, State Bank of Mysore, State Bank of Patiala, State Bank of Travancore and Bhartiya Mahila Bank.Also, as on December 23, 2016, out of total requirement of 1,27,198 fixed location bank mitras in sub service areas (SSAs), 1,26,985 bank mitras have been deployed by banks.Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) cumulative gross enrolment reported by banks, subject to verification of eligibility, etc. is over 3.08 crore, while Rs 9.88 crore under Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), as of December 28. Around 38.23 lakh subscribers have been enrolled under the Atal Pension Yojana (APY) with a total pension wealth of Rs 1,344.70 crore. Out of the total subscribers, 19.74 lakh subscribers have been enrolled during 2016 (up to December 15, 2016).

Claiming that the three social security schemes launched by PM Narendra Modi will give those working in the unorganised sector a sense of security, the AAP government on Saturday said it would promote the initiatives in Delhi.The schemes  Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana  were launched at the Secretariat, which was among 115 locations across the country. PTI

TRICHY: Awareness level on insurance schemes announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi a year ago remains low among the public. Efforts have to be taken to spread about the benefits of the schemes, representatives from various banks asserted at a mela held in the city on Wednesday.Insurance schemes announced by the Union government are effective and affordable than the policies offered by insurance companies, they said. Over 700 people attended the awareness meeting-cum-mela in which 40 banks put up their stalls on the insurance and pension schemes. The mela was organized jointly by Andhra Bank and Indian Overseas Bank."The annual premium for 'Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana' (accident insurance), 'Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Yojana' (life insurance) is less than that of the policies available in the market offered by insurance companies," said P Sivakumar, deputy general manager, SBI, Trichy zone.About 1.83 lakh accounts were opened in Trichy as part of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY). These schemes are part of the financial inclusion concept since a saving bank account becomes mandatory for availing these schemes, he said."As less than 20% of the population in the country has insurance cover and non-life insurance policy holders are less than 10%, it is high time that the people avail the benefits of the scheme while enrolling themselves," S Suresh Kumar, assistant general manager (AGM), National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), said.Public must understand the schemes fully before enrolling themselves and understand that these schemes only provide insurance cover and not yield any short term returns, he said."Since the concept of pension is being abolished even in the government sector, the pension scheme (APY) would certainly benefit not only those working in the private sector but also in the government sector," A Chitra, 39, a homemaker from Chatram who availed the Atal Pension Yojana.As the scheme doesn't yield any short term benefits to the customers and it need a contribution for over 2 decades to be eligible for pension, there is less interest among the general public, though the annual contribution is minimal, she said.

On the International Womens Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday denounced crimes against women, saying our heads hang in shame, and announced that the government was setting up One-Stop Centres besides a helpline for those facing violence, abuse or harassment.I salute the indomitable courage and stellar achievements of women. Today, we renew our pledge to make women an equal and integral part of our development journey, he said in a statement.Our heads hang in shame when we hear of instances of crime against women. We must walk shoulder-to-shoulder to end all forms of discrimination or injustice against women, he said.Helplines plannedMr. Modi said the government was setting up One-Stop Centres that will provide assistance, legal advice and psychological counselling to women who faced violence or abuse.The government was also commencing a mobile helpline to enable women to dial 181 for access to counselling and referral services.He said his government had initiated several measures aimed at bringing about a positive change in the lives of women.That is central to our vision of Indias progress and a life of dignity and opportunity for all our citizens, the Prime Minister said and appealed to all for support in transforming our vision into reality.Referring to the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao Yojana, he said it sought to usher in a paradigm shift in attitudes towards the girl child and placed emphasis on educating the girl child.The Sukanya Samruddhi Yojana would provide support for marriage and education of young women. MUDRA Bank would help thousands of women achieve financial independence.The Union Budget unveiled broad-based social security schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.  PTI

Bhubaneswar, Aug. 13: The Odisha government will spend Rs 1,500 crore within five years to provide a foolproof and efficient power system in the city and its nearby areas. The state cabinet, presided by chief minister Naveen Patnaik, this evening approved the proposal to this effect. The project, named State Capital Region Improvement of Power System, will benefit about 30 lakh people in Bhubaneswar, said Odisha chief secretary G.C. Pati. The cabinet also approved to another 33 proposals related to various sectors, including change of nomenclature of the information technology department as "electronics and information technology department" and the employment and technical education and training department as "skill development and technical education department". The power project envisages renovation, modernisation and expansion of the existing transmission and distribution infrastructure with an aim to ensure 24x7 uninterrupted, reliable and stable power supply to consumers, including the public services covered under the comprehensive development plan for Bhubaneswar and Cuttack urban complex. The state-owned Odisha Power Transmission Corporation Limited will implement the project in five years. A consultant for the preparation of transmission and distribution master plan and the detailed project report has been selected in an open bidding process. The cabinet also gave its nod to the proposal to set up an exclusive Industrial Infrastructure Development Fund with an initial corpus of Rs 100 crore to develop quality infrastructure such as roads, power, water and waste management. Capital grants will also be provided to industrial parks promoted by the private sector or industry associations to develop external infrastructure. The Odisha government also decided to formulate a special incentive package scheme to attract investments in electronics system design and manufacturing sector to the state by giving additional incentives on capital investment subsidy, entry tax, power incentives, interest subsidy and other facilities. The industrial houses coming to set up the electronics industry will be given subsidy up to Rs 50 crore. "If the companies recruit Odia people, the state government will bear the cost towards employees state insurance and employees provident fund subject to a maximum of Rs 2 crore per year for two years," said IT secretary P.K. Jena. It also approved to the "policy for housing for all in urban areas" for providing affordable houses. In order to implement the policy, the Odisha government has decided to constitute an Odisha Housing Mission. The cabinet also approved an amendment to tourism policy empowering the state tourism secretary to clear a project to the tune of Rs 50 crore. Besides, it approved a number of policies regarding recruitment rules. For the first time, the Odisha government decided to set up a data policy. "An Odisha Spatial Data Infrastructure will be created by the Odisha Remote Sensing Application Centre in financial support from the science and technology department," an official said.

Kolkata, May 10, 2015, dhns: 0:23 ISTTwo insurance and one pension plan unveiledDrawing inspiration from the success of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched three social security schemes here on Saturday.While launching the schemes, Modi pointed out that the need for the three schemes came from the realisation that while between 80 to 90 per cent of Indians do not have any kind of insurance, only around 10 to 15 per cent receive some kind of pension.With Jan Dhan Yojana, we provided banking services to those who did not have bank accounts. Today, I have come to provide social security cover to those who are uninsured, he said at the event in Nazrul Mancha here.Modi pointed out the significance of launching the schemes on Rabindranath Tagores 155th birth anniversary and quoted lines from his works to say that the poor did not need help but needed the power to come out of poverty.Though the schemes are going to be officially launched on ground from June 1, we have already received more than 5.5 crore applications for enrolment since it was opened for the public on May 1, Modi said, congratulating West Bengal for its 42 lakh applications.Echoing the words of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who addressed the gathering before him, Modi said: Schemes can be launched but if benefits do not reach the poor, there would be no point in such schemes. We aspire to ensure that.Explaining the details of the schemes, he said that under Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, any bank account-holder can get insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh for Rs 12 a month, including natural calamities.Under Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Yojana, one can get insurance cover for annual premium of Rs 330, with no usual complications in modalities like health check-ups.Talking about Atal Pension Yojana, named after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, he said that any citizen between the age of 18 and 40 can avail the scheme and will mandatorily get pension between Rs 1,000 and Rs 5,000 depending on the option they opt for.Even a farmer can think of enjoying a pension, something which has been unheard of till date, said the prime minister.

The medical college of the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) in Coimbatore will start functioning from the 2014 academic year, Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment Kodikunnil Suresh told presspersons here on Wednesday.The Minister, who was here to participate in a review meeting, said that the Ministry was implementing several projects and programmes in the State. The corporations medical college in Chennai (KK Nagar) would be inaugurated this year and admissions to the college would commence this academic year. In the case of the medical college in Coimbatore, 75 per cent works were over. The ESIC had invested about Rs. 520 crore for the medical college here.The ESI would also take over the Coimbatore ESI hospital from the State Government and the process had started for the same.Since renovation works were on at the ESI hospital here, the 500-bed facility now had only 250 beds. It would be a 300-bed hospital by September and a 500-bed hospital again by December.The ESIC also planned to start new hospitals at Sriperumpudur, Kanyakumari, Tuticorin and Tirupur in Tamil Nadu and each of the four hospitals would have 100 beds. The ESIC would invest over Rs. 100 crore for each and had started the land acquisition process for these. Construction works were on for a new building for a 100-bed hospital at Tirunelveli and the works would be over in six months.The Minister added that ESI coverage was not available in four districts in Tamil Nadu  Ramanathapuram, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Tiruvarur. The coverage would start in Ramanathapuram and Tiruvarur districts.In the case of Employees Provident Fund, the Minister said that Coimbatore region covered 29,996 establishments with 40 lakh members in 18 districts. During 2012-2013, as many as 1,825 establishments were covered adding 1.91 lakh members.The trade unions were demanding that the salary ceiling for ESI benefit should be increased to Rs. 25,000. The ESIC board had to decide on this, he said.ESICs medical college in Coimbatore will function from 2014ESI coverage will begin in Ramanathapuram and Tiruvarur

Conservancy workers seek regularisationAbout 50 members of the Tamil Nadu Health Workers Welfare Association gathered at the Collectorate here on Monday, demanding regularisation of conservancy workers of Madurai Corporation who had served for 25 years. The workers should also get Employees Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance Corporation benefits, they added.

In his second Independence Day speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to announce a new crop income insurance scheme for all farmers nationwide. It is expected to cushion them against deficient monsoon, inadequate storage facilities, lack of assured power supply and restrictions on free trade between States.The announcement  if Mr. Modi goes ahead with it as approved by the Union Cabinet  will be in sharp contrast to the Make in India appeal he had made in his maiden Independence Day speech last year.The government expects the proposed scheme to address inadequate farm insurance cover. Only four per cent of the farmers were reported to have crop insurance cover and only 19 per cent ever used any, said a report released by the Reserve Bank of India in June. The report recommended that the insurance cover be expanded.A top government official told The Hindu that earlier this week, the Union Cabinet approved the proposal after deliberations among the Agriculture, Finance and Rural Development Ministries.The decision is one step towards addressing Indias farm sector distress problems  It will also serve as a response to the Oppositions relentless charge that Mr. Modi is anti-farmer, anti-poor and pro-business, an official source said.The poor crop insurance cover is among the reasons for suicide by farmers in distress. The Agriculture Ministry has said that 3,313 farmers had committed suicide for agrarian reasons in the past three years, with Maharashtra, Telangana, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala accounting for 3,301 of them.The top official said the scheme would be rolled out on the direct benefit transfer (DBT) platform, along the lines of the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Yojana, the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and the Atal Pension Yojana. The DBT will address the issue of delayed settlement of claims. Most companies are unable to settle claims within 45 days of risk assessment, as is required under the rules. This is because of a variety of reasons, including belated availability of output loss assessment data. By government estimates, the Centre and the States incurred losses of over Rs. 2,600 crore during 2012-13 while providing insurance cover for a mere five per cent of the total value of crop output.

Syndicate Bank plans social security schemes drive to enrol publicMangaluru, May 31, 2015, DHNS: 0:09 ISTTo populaise three social security schemes announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Syndicate Bank, which is the lead bank in district, in association with, A Chandrahasa Shetty of Jaya Manasa Trust, Assaigoli, plans is organising camps for enrolling applications under Pradhan Mantri Surakasha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), on May 31 between 10 am and 2 pm. The camps will be held at Manasa Complex Assaigoli and Kaveri Complex, Mudipu, Syndicate Bank DGM Narendranath Kamath said.Briefing reporters here, on Wednesday, he said the beneficiaries residing in and around Assaigoli and Mudipu will be enrolled in the camps under both schemes subject to age criteria. The beneficiaries have to visit the camps along with their bank account pass book and Aadhaar card (if they have obtained). If the beneficiary does not have a bank account, there are arrangements have been made to open bank accounts and then enroll. In such cases the beneficiaries has to produce a photograph and a valid address proof.He said zero balance account holder can also avail the scheme provided they credit the premium amount.For Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, the premium amount is Rs 12 per year and the coverage is Rs 2 lakh for accidental death and Rs 1 lakh for partial disability due to accident. Accident need not be only road accident. It includes disability or death due to any kind of accident like roof collapse, fall from a tree, drowning in water, bursting of cylinder, snake bite or any freak accident. The life insuarance cover under Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana is Rs 2 lakh. The premium to be remitted is Rs 330. The Atal Pension Yojana is for the beneficiaries between the age group of 18 to 40 years under the unorganised sector.Lead District Bank Manager Prabhu Alagavadi said the target for Dakshina Kannada district is one lakh applications in Pradhan Mantri Surakasha Bima Yojana and 50,000 applications in Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana. The Syndicate Bank has received over 39,000 applications so far. On the inaugural day (May 9), a total of 82,000 applications for PMSBY and 32,000 applications for PMJJY have been received by various banks. The work on data entry of the applications are in progress in the district, he added.

The Union Ministry of Labour has directed the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) to exempt start-ups from inspection and filing returns for three years.In line with Prime Minister Narendra Modis vision to nurture start-ups, the Ministry said in a set of directions last week that the new age ventures should be allowed to self-certify their compliance with nine labour laws. According to the Start Up India  Stand Up India (Administrator) of Local Circles, the Labour Secretary, Shankar Aggarwal, in a letter had said start-ups should not be inspected or asked to file returns for three years under nine laws including the Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act and the Employees State Insurance Act. Promoting start-ups would need special hand-holding and nurturing. Thus, such ventures may be allowed to self-certify compliance with the labour laws, he added.They will be exempted from inspection under the Building and other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, Payment of Gratuity Act and Contract Labour Act.Start-ups will also be exempted from filing returns under the Industrial Disputes Act, Building and other Construction Workers Act, Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, Contract Labour Act, EPF Act and ESI Act.

Press Trust of India, New Delhi, Jun 10 2017, 0:07 ISTFinance Minister Arun Jaitley will meet heads of public sector banks and financial institutions on June 12 to discuss issues related to rising bad loans, interest rate reduction and credit flow to various sectors.He will also review the performance of the lenders. The meeting assumes significance as it will be the first after promulgation of the ordinance amending the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, last month.The government had through this ordinance empowered the Reserve Bank to ask banks to initiate insolvency proceedings to recover bad loans and promised more measures to resolve the NPA crisis.Major issues on the agenda of the meeting, the first during this fiscal, include issues and solutions relating to Non Performing Assets (NPAs) of the Public Sector Banks (PSBs), status of MSE Credit, Stand-up India and Mudra Yojana among others, the finance ministry said in a statement on Friday.Other issues on agenda include discussion on financial inclusion and literacy, review of performance of Social Security Schemes including Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) etc, it said.The day-long meeting will also cover areas like cyber security, digitalisation of the banking transactions, rural development, agriculture credit and education loans.Role and preparedness of banks in the implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST) is also likely to be discussed in the one day Meeting of PSBs, it said. GST is going to be rolled-out from July 1.As for the recovery of bad loans, the RBI has also made substantial changes in the related norms and warned banks of monetary penalty for missing NPA resolution timelines.

The Puduvai Bharathiar Grama Bank, the only Regional Rural Bank in the Union Territory of Puducherry, has launched an intensive campaign to enlist beneficiaries for the Central governments Pradhan Mantri MUDRA (Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency) Yojana.MUDRA was launched earlier this year to provide funding to the non-corporate small business sector. At the programme on Monday, cheques were disbursed to beneficiaries for the Mudra Loans by Mahesh Kumar Jain, MD and CEO, Indian Bank, Corporate Office Chennai, R. Manimaran, General Manager, Indian Bank, Chennai and S. Parthasarathy, Zonal Manager, Indian Bank, Puducherry. Mr. Jain appreciated the performance of the Puduvai Bharathiar Grama Bank and emphasised the need to repay the loans on time, and get additional loans from banks, said a release from the organisers. Bankers are custodians of the depositors money, he added.The Puduvai Bharathiar Grama Bank, is sponsored by the Indian Bank, and the Government of Puducherry has a stake in it. According to the PMMY Report on the MUDRA website, the Puduvai Bharathiar Grama Bank has opened 440 accounts under the Shishu category (covering loans up to Rs. 50,000) for which Rs. 2.01crore has been disbursed, and opened 90 Kishor category (loans above 50,000/- up to Rs. 5 lakh) accounts for which Rs. 1.46 crore has been disbursed. Four Tarun category (loans above Rs. 5 lakh up to Rs. 10 lakh) accounts have also been opened.Puduvai Bharathiar Grama Bank Chairman D. Devaraj highlighted the growth of the bank and said the workforce in the bank had an average age of 28 years, making it the youngest RRB in the country, according to the release.Mr. Devaraj said the bank had opened 20,943 accounts through the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (targeting large scale financial inclusion), and these accounts had a balance of Rs. 277.02 lakhs. The bank had registered 5,922 beneficiaries for the life insurance scheme Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), and 18,572 beneficiaries for the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY). It also registered 117 beneficiaries for the Atal Pension Yojana. Its performance in opening accounts under all the schemes has made it the second best performing bank after Indian Bank, he added.The State Level Bankers Committee Puducherry, an inter-institutional forum of banks and the government, will also be launching its own campaign for PMMY, said an official of the Puduvai Bharathiar Grama Bank.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi took time off from his busy campaign schedule ahead of the last two phases of the Lok Sabha elections to address a wide range of issues in an interview with Hindustan Times. Modi, sanguine about winning a second term in office, began by explaining the importance of the 2019 mandate.The 2019 elections are special because it is the first time that those born in the 21st century are voting. These youngsters are not burdened by the past, they are in pursuit of a better future. These youngsters do not want to be bogged down by dynastic shenanigans, they want a nation where merit is recognised. They do not want old-school caste politics, they want a new age development agenda, the 68-year-old Prime Minister said.Asked how he had changed since 2014, when he led the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to a majority on its own, Modi replied: My digestion powers have increased. I can digest insults more easily.Q. Are you confident of coming back to office?Absolutely. From the first day. 26 May 2014.Q. What are the big issues in this election?Three issues are there. One development. Two, inclusive development. Three, development in all directions.In 2022, India will mark 75 years of Independence. It is up to us to create an India that will make our freedom fighters proud. The 2019 elections are special because it is the first time that those born in the 21st century are voting. These youngsters are not burdened by the past, they are in pursuit of a better future. These youngsters do not want to be bogged down by dynastic shenanigans, they want a nation where merit is recognised. They do not want old-school caste politics, they want a new age development agenda.Hence, in these elections, people will vote for those who they feel can build a better nation and lay the foundations of a strong and inclusive India. People will see our exemplary track record of 60 months, contrasting it with inertia of those who got the opportunity to rule for almost 60 years.Q. Are you sure, because at least in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, we hear that caste is still the most important factor.People of all castes want development. Especially, the young generation, women  they want a solution for their problems. And all the schemes and programmes of my government not only provide them a solution, but also brings them hope of the 21st century.Q. Do you think this is just an election being fought on a pro- or anti-Modi platform?People are weighing their options based on track record, vision and development work offered by various parties.For me, our work and our vision ahead are the prime issues. The Opposition, which has a galaxy of PM aspirants but a total bankruptcy of vision, plan and agenda is taking to abusing Modi, using caste and communal politics. Rest assured, people are going to reject this Mahamilawat (grand adulteration) alliance.Q. What is your view on alliances? You have called the oppositions alliance a Mahamilawat but you also have one of your own.One of Atal Bihari Vajpayees big contributions in India is two-camp politics. One camp led by the BJP, and the other by the Congress. Alliances are important to address regional aspirations. But you also need a government with a clear majority at the Centre.Our model is a majority government at the Centre, and a focus on regional aspirations  that should be evident from our record over the past five years. The Congress party has a different understanding of alliances. Make Charan Singh PM; pull the rug from under him. Make Chandrashekar-ji PM, then pull him down. Make IK Gujral PM, then get him down.Q. Why is the narrative of this election so polarizing  on both sides?You have to understand that we are not choosing a class monitor here. We are deciding the direction this country takes. We are deciding the future of 130 crore Indians, especially the 65% of the population which is under the age of 35. A lot is at stake.This is an election that will prove to be the turning point in Indias rise in the world. I am glad that this election has brought out the differences between the two sides clearly. Now, the people of India will be able to make a clear choice between the two ways of looking at the country.Those who say family first or those who say India first. Those who send love letters when terror strikes or those who answer terrorists in their own language. Those who stand with tukde-tukde gang or those who stand with the armed forces.Those who stand to protect those who are guilty of sedition or those who live and die to protect and preserve Indias integrity. Those who did dalali (brokered) defence deals and weakened Indian defence or those who proved Indias mettle even in space. Those who made headlines for scams after scams in every sector or those who have ended the culture of scams. Those who tried their best to besmirch Indias 5,000-year-old civilization or those who stand for learning from Indias glorious past to build a bright future.The choice is simple and clear. Therefore, if you call such an election, where the two sides have been clearly identified the positions they take on vital issues, as polarized, then I would say it is a good thing.Q. The quality of discourse in this election seems to be falling. Mamata Banerjee said your hands are drenched in blood. You made your comment on Rajiv Gandhi (called him Brashtachari No.1 or corrupt person No 1), and the Congress has responded in equal measure. Whats happening?I can give you a list of what various important people of the Congress, including those of the family (the Nehru-Gandhi family) and people close to the family have called me. I have been called Duryodhan by Priyanka Gandhi, Aurangzeb by Sanjay Nirupam, a Hindu terrorist by Deen Dayal Bairwa, a namard (impotent person) by Narayan Rane. Even in the past, I have been called names. In 2016, Rahul Gandhi said I am a dalal (broker) in the blood of soldiers. In 2007, Sonia Gandhi called be merchant of death. Theres more. Many of these were targeted at a sitting Prime Minister.So, if we are speaking of respect for the post, then its the same respect for everyone in that post  then it is true for Deve Gowdaji in Karnataka. It is true for (former PM Manmohan Singh) whose governments order, was torn in public (by Rahul Gandhi). If you are speaking of respect for the post, then what about former Andhra CM Anjaiahji, a Dalit, who was humiliated in Hyderabad airport (by former PM Rajiv Gandhi). So anyone complaining now has to see the whole thing in perspective. As far as Mamataji is concerned, you should decide, as a journalist, whether you are fine with her tone and tenor of speaking. Her language. Ask reporters in Bengal whether such statements do anything for the state.Q. But surely, the quality of discourse has never been so badEver since electronic media (TV) came, since then, these things are being given primacy. In an election meeting or rally, in a funny way, to make a point. I remember going and listening to speeches of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Madhu Limaye, George Fernandes. Their speeches had such statements too, but back then there was only print media. Now, from a 50-minute speech, a 10-second statement is taken and played on loop 24 hours. That said, there should definitely be courtesy.Q. In many parts of the country the contest seems to have been reduced to a presidential one with the biggest factors being the Modi effect. Doesnt this erode the relevance and importance of MPs in a parliamentary system?This whole election is on the basis of performance, not perception. By performance, I mean the various schemes of the government of India; and the local MPs are involved in the implementation of these schemes locally at the grass-root level. To just say that in these elections, there is just a name that is working, that isnt correct. Naam bhi chal raha hai; kaam bhi chal raha hai (the name is working, sure, but so is the work).Q. There is a school of thought that says your party will not get more than 180 seats this timeProfessors and teachers used to take the syllabus and make a diary of it. Every year the student would be new but the teacher and the diary. The world will change but they will teach from that. This is a similar section of people. They said the same thing in 2014. They are saying the same thing now.Q. There are so many complaints being made to the Election Commission these days; and the whole thing has become controversial.The Congress and its durbaaris have decided not to allow the EC to do its job well. Therefore, everywhere, they have people, professionals, who e-mail complaints, making sure the EC cant do anything else.The other thing is that in our country, courts never interfered in elections. These days, unfortunately, the court has also been pulled into it (with cases on the ECs actions being filed before it).The third thing is that before the great loss in the elections, just like a student who hasnt done well makes excuses, they (the opposition) are pointing fingers at EVMs {electronic voting machines}, EC. Irrespective of whether there are elections or not, we have to respect institutions.Q. With the responses to Uri and Pulwama, have we rewritten the escalation matrix with Pakistan and called its nuclear bluff? Do you think this will have the desired long-term objective of preventing Pakistan from nurturing terror groups?For a decade or so, the Indian government had tied its own hands as far as Pakistan-backed terror was concerned. Pakistan kept mounting attacks after attacks and there was no cost imposed upon the perpetrators of attacks. This gave terrorists and their sponsors a kind of impunity that we can do anything and get away.First with the surgical strikes, and now with the air strikes, we have sent a message that there will now be significant costs to sponsoring terror. We have also conveyed an unambiguous message that no matter where the terrorists are, even if they are deep within the Pakistani territory, they are not safe and they are within our reach. This is a significant change in the way India deals with terror. Pakistan has also seen the world reaction to our pre-emptive strikes. In future, they will be aware that their strategy of sponsoring terror against India will be detrimental to their own existence.Q. Sure, but hasnt this dialed things up? For instance, the next time there is an attack, doesnt this put pressure on us to act?So out of fear of that pressure, we should do nothing?Q. Former PM, Manmohan Singh, said in an interview with us that his government conducted six surgical strikes. He added that they didnt use it for votesTo the extent that I know of such things  all army chiefs have said such a thing has not happened on their watch. What kind of surgical strike was it? Who issued the orders? Or was it a non-violent procession? Where are the orders? These are the questions they should be asked to answer. After all, I wasnt in charge then. I can only say that we have not found any records of this.Q. About the Masood Azhar listing as a global terrorist by the UNs 1267 Sanctions Committee, does it mean we are now in a good place with China?We have always said India First. When foreign policy of a government is clear in what it wants, the results happen as a by-product. Throughout the last five years, we have reached out and made new friends, we have strengthened relationships with old friends and more importantly, we have brought about a fundamental paradigm shift in the way we are perceived. We are now seen and respected as a nation that will leave no stone unturned to ensure the safety and security of its citizens.This is the reason major nations of the world stood with our decision of surgical strikes and air strikes. This is also the reason why the long-pending listing of Masood Azhar as a global terrorist has happened. But the Azhar issue isnt about China. Why do we keep making it so? It is a global terrorism issue.Q. Is there a new and more friendly India-China dynamic brewing?India and China are both leading power centres, with an important say in todays geopolitics. It is important for our nations to work together for the greater global good. Our history shows that there was a time when both our nations controlled a lions share of the worlds GDP. I think both our countries understand that there is a lot more common ground between us. Both our countries realise and accept that we have disagreements but we are also conscious of the fact that we will not let these disagreements become disputes. There is a great deal of respect that our countries have for each other and it is out of this mutual respect that even if there is a disagreement, we resolve it through high-level negotiations.Q. If you are re-elected you will inherit the same Kashmir problem you faced in 2014. Would you agree that there has been no progress there and that things are maybe even worse? What do you think needs to be done to address this?We have to understand that the problem which media defines as the Kashmir Problem is a problem limited to two-and-a-half districts. We have been successful in confining the problems to a limited area. This is also not a problem that cropped up all of a sudden in 2014. Successive administrations have had to tackle the issue.The problem in Kashmir is the match-fixing being done by a few families there, who have taken the garb of conscience keepers of the people there. These families play their part with great finesse. In the process, peoples aspirations have been long ignored. We are still suffering from what Rajiv Gandhi and JKNC {Jammu and Kashmir National Conference} did in 1987. Has anybody questioned the Gen Next of Congress and JKNC about it? Those who preach hate and separatism in the valley lead comfortable lives themselves. Yet, they misguide youngsters to take to violence.Our work in Kashmir is to care of the citizens of the state, not a few families. We have done that with utmost diligence and sincerity. Jammu and Kashmir has got substantial modern physical and social infrastructure in the last five years. We want the youth to have books in their hands, not bombs. We want the youth of Kashmir to pursue their dreams. And, I know that the state is home to very talented youngsters who can give so much to their own state and the nation. The enabling environment is what we are trying to provide.We are inspired by Atal Jis vision of Insaniyat, Jamhuriyat and Kashmiriyat {humanism, democracy and Kashmiri culture} of and will continue working to fulfil the aspirations of the states youth.Q. There is still a farm crisis on. Despite higher minimum support prices (MSPs) farmers struggle because not enough is being procured. Whats the long-term solution?First of all, I wish to correct you on the procurement part. We do not just declare MSP at a minimum of 1.5 times the cost, but we also buy more from the farmers at MSP to ensure the MSP hike actually benefits them. This is where the difference really is, between the UPA {United Progressive Alliance} and us. During the five years from 2009-10 to 2013-14, under UPA, only around 7 lakh MT of pulses and oilseeds were procured at MSP. During 2014-15 to 2018-19, under NDA, {National Democratic Alliance} 94 lakh MT of pulses and oilseeds were procured at MSP by us. This is almost a 15-fold jump.This apart, for the long-term welfare of our farmers, we have a stated aim of doubling farmers income by 2022. Which other government declared such an aim and ensured accountability for itself?We took the historic decision of ensuring direct income support of Rs 6,000 to small and marginal farmers every year. Unlike the Congress, which wrote in its 2004 and 2009 manifestos that it will implement direct income support to farmers and ignored it, we announced it in February and in the same month, farmers started receiving the first instalment directly in their bank accounts, without any middlemen or delays. In our manifesto, we have announced that we intend to extend this scheme to all farmers.Q. Lets start with the basics, which are the most important. Bijli, sadak, paani, naukri. On bijli and sadak your government has done well. On water, there are huge water shortages in many parts of the country. Theres drought in parts of Tamil Nadu, Andhra, Maharashtra. What is the long-term solution to this?Good to see that you are acknowledging bijli and sadak are among our big achievements. On a related note, you may have observed an interesting phenomenon in this election.Earlier, the pet issues of any Opposition were bijli, sadak, paani and mehangai. Incumbent governments have been routed on these issues. Today, the situation is the exact opposite. The incumbent government has much to talk about on our track record in these areas whereas the Opposition is silent. They have nothing to talk on these issues of national importance.Coming to the question of paani, we have also put in a lot of work on this front but it is just that the work has not hit the headlines of newspapers as it should have. Our priorities are to ensure adequate water for farms and clean drinking water in the cities and villages. For example, take the micro-irrigation programme. When I say Per Drop More Crop, what I mean is that we must look to manage water better using micro-irrigation techniques so that our farmers can produce more crops.Q. Your manifesto talks of a ministry of water. This is an interesting idea. What will this ministry do?Water scarcity is not merely a national challenge but also a major global challenge. As a leading member of the global community, is it not high time we put our best foot forward and contribute to mitigating this challenge?In line with our vision of working towards solutions instead of silos, we have proposed the setting up of a separate ministry for jal shakti, a one-stop place to handle all issues relating to water resources. This includes water conservation, water access, new techniques, irrigation patterns, crop patterns, desalination in coastal areas and more such endeavours.We understand how critical water is for the future of the country. So, we want to bring an integrated and focused approach for its preservation and management. Its management is currently spread across various departments and ministries. This new ministry of water brings a holistic and all-encompassing focus.Take for example, the idea of river linking that has been spoken of for decades. Atal Ji made a promising start but we all know what happened after his government was replaced by the UPA. This new ministry would take care of something as ambitious as that and ensure a solution to the problems of drinking water and irrigation.The way cleanliness has become a mass movement, there is a need for water management to also become a mass movement. We owe this to our country and more importantly, for the future generations.Q. Staying on the subject of water, the cleanliness of many of our rivers, including the Ganga is cause for concern. While there have no doubt been efforts to clean the Ganga, recent studies by the Varanasi-based Sankat Mochan Foundation show that more needs to be done, especially to curb bacterial pollution, although there was some improvement in reducing sewage discharge. What more needs to be done?The river is a life-giving force. Its cleanliness and preservation is both a matter of faith as well as for survival. In the last 2-3 years, Gangas improving health and biodiversity has made news. In fact it was your newspaper which has brought such findings in the public.The aquatic life is on revival path. Many experts have checked the cleanliness and vouched for its improved state. These are positive signs indicating that the efforts that we have put are bearing fruit. People who visited Kumbh this time were not only pleasantly surprised by Gangas waters but also fascinated with the flora and fauna growing in and around the river. We stopped tonnes of sewage from a large number of drains, including the Sismau drain from polluting Ganga. And it is not a small feat. For a century, the dirty water was flowing into the river but there was no action.You would be happy to know that over 4,000 villages on the banks of Ganga have been made Open Defecation Free (ODF) already. Only recently, at Global Water Summit in London, Namami Gange was felicitated with the Public Water Agency of the Year Award, recognising our work. I am not claiming that Ganga has been cleaned. A lot is left to be done! But one thing is assured that we have right intentions and we are on the right track.Q. Coming to the issue of naukri, without getting into a debate on data because theres no official data yet and like you said we need new metrics to measure jobs created, it is clear that we need to create more jobs, and more well paying jobs. What will you do on this front?In a rapidly changing and evolving economy, we need a more robust mechanism to measure the employment metrics across various sectors, both in the traditional economy as well as the new economic sectors. The new mechanism needs to be able to measure jobs created by new age entrepreneurs as well. This is a mechanism which is being evolved.Job creation is happening and at a healthy scale. How do I say this? There is data in the public domain that provides enough evidence. EPFO {Employees Provident Fund Organisation} and ESIC {Employees State Insurance Corporation} data suggest that in the last one year we have been adding almost 10 lakh jobs a month, which is around 1.2 crore jobs a year. 17 crore have got loans from Mudra Yojana without bank guarantee. In that, 4.5 crores have attained it in the very first time. And each of them would have started something to earn money. They would have given employed one or two more people.A survey by CII {Confederation of Indian Industry} says that around 6 crore new jobs were created in the MSME {micro, small, medium enterprises} sector in the last four years.Now, here are some indicators:India has been the fastest growing large economy in the last few years. In fact average growth in our government has been best if we compare all governments since 1991. FDI {foreign direct investment} inflows in India are at a record high. Is this possible without no jobs?We are building roads, highways, railways, houses at more than double the previous speed. We are one of the largest start-up hubs in the world. We have a booming start-up economy with various app-based businesses thriving. With Start-up India we began the process of making youth from job seekers to job creators. We have committed ourselves to provide collateral-free credit up to Rs 50 lakh for entrepreneurs, 50,000 new Indian Start-ups by 2024.We will construct 60,000 km of National Highways in the next five years and double the length of National Highways by 2022. By 2024, we aim to make a capital investment of Rs100 lakh crore in the infrastructure sector. We have already taken the number of operational airports from 65 to 100. In the next five years, we will double that too!We are committed to investing Rs. 25 lakh crore to improve the productivity of the farm and rural sectors.India is poised to become a $5 trillion economy by 2030. The opportunities that come with Indias economic expansion will directly benefit the bright and young minds. The investments that we have planned for the next five years, coupled with such rapid growth, will create ample job opportunities that will be a mix of new age and traditional as well as well-paying. And to ensure that the young are able to make the most of these opportunities, skilling and education reforms have been undertaken simultaneously.Q. Lets talk about economic policies. When your government came to power, there was an expectation that you would, over time, reduce role of government in business, make the market more open, do away with inspector Raj by reforming tax policies and move away from subsidies. Your farmer payout suggests a move away from subsidies, maybe even a move to a Universal Basic Income. Can we expect this to happen, if only in stages, if you return to power?We believe that a country as vast and as complex as India needs solutions which are contextual. We firmly believe that our approach to social welfare must be a combination of creating a ladder of opportunity for our farmers to grow and to provide a safety net to help mitigate risks so that they may bounce back from economic hardship. This is reflected in our 360-degree approach where farmer income support is supplemented by other interventions such as insurance, soil health etc while we are laser focused on doubling farmer income. Hence it would be a mistake to look at any one intervention in isolation.PM-KISAN is a program to support farmers for their input costs of cropping. PM-KISAN ensures cash availability at important points in agriculture cycle. Farmers are free to deploy their own cash as per their requirements. We believe that our programs will lead to higher productivity and new jobs in the economy not just in agriculture but in all other sectors.Q. The world over, countries are becoming more protectionist and closed. How does a developing country, which stands to benefit from globalization, prevent itself from falling into a tit-for-tax protectionist stand off?India believes in the tenet of Sarvjan Hitay, Sarvjan Sukhay. We will protect our interests in the global trade arena but we are not trying to needlessly start conflicts. Thats never been Indian philosophy. Each country acts as per its own requirements. We believe that an efficient industry can overcome some of these barriers. Our Make In India program, encouraging manufacturing in India are all steps in the direction of becoming stronger and competitive. We want to focus on Indias innumerable strengths.Q. Are you happy with the progress of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), which seems to be stabilizing in terms of returns every month? Do you think it can be made more friendly. Also, irrespective of the long-term impacts, both GST and demonetization hurt the MSMEs, even if only temporarily. Many of them have been forced to formalize. Was this part of your plan? Dont you think there was/is a risk of losing political capital because of this?The objective of GST was not merely tax collection. The concept of one nation, one tax has been implemented through GST. Indias biggest strength lies in being an emerging big market. This market has been unified and various inefficiencies have been removed. While implementing any major reform some problems are natural and an alert system solves those problems quickly. Learning from our experiences of 21 months with GST, we are taking multiple steps towards making GST more consumer friendly, trader friendly, business friendly, manufacturer friendly and service provider friendly.If I also had kept thinking about the risk of losing political capital, then what is the difference between my government and previous governments. Some steps need to taken in national interest. I am thankful that the people of India have given us uninterrupted support and co-operation in this journey. This is possible when people also know that the steps are being taken with the right intentions and in the larger good.As a result of formalisation, MSMEs get the benefit of institutional credit. In India, the MSMEs are always deprived of formal credit as per their requirements. Due to this, their cost of capital was always disproportionately more. Because of inclusion in GST, the MSMEs have a new window of credit Workers will get benefit of facilities of social security from formalization. Millions of workers start getting facilities of pension, health insurance, life insurance and maternity benefits with formalisation of firms.Q. Which would you consider your governments most significant policy campaigns and why? Swachh Bharat? Ayushmani Bharat? The PMAY? The farm insurance scheme? Ujjwala?Each of these schemes you have mentioned, have been unique in their speed and scale. With Swachh Bharat, a womens dignity was made the focal point of social governance. Over 9 crore toilets built in 5 years ensured that women are not forced to defecate in open and the sanitation coverage of India went up from just 38% in 2014 to 99% in 2019.With Ujjwala, again, more than 7 crore women and especially their children were freed from the choking life that they were subjected to for so long due to cooking with firewood.Take Ayushman Bharat, the worlds largest healthcare insurance programme is transforming the entire healthcare system in the country. It has made quality healthcare accessible and affordable for the poorest. Same with Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, which is fulfilling the dream of owning a house for all Indians, irrespective of which class, caste, region they belong to. PM Fasal Bima Yojana has brought immense relief to a farmers family who no longer fear impoverishment due to crop damage.Each of these initiatives has fundamentally changed peoples lives, in a way that they have been freed from the fear and uncertainty that poverty, sickness, and homelessness bring in peoples lives. These fears had tied down generations of Indians and trapped them in a cycle of poverty. But that feeling of fear, anxiety and helplessness is being driven away now. This helplessness is giving way to hope and the anxiety is giving way to aspirations.Q. You have been CM of Gujarat for over a decade. And you have been PM for five years. What is the biggest challenge facing the country?We have lots of opportunities, but we dont seem to mind if we miss them. Its almost as if its OK to miss these. We have to now challenge ourselves to not miss a single opportunity.Q. Whats the difference between the Modi of 2014 and the Modi of 2019?My digestion powers have increased. I can digest insults more easily.First Published: May 09, 2019 06:10 IST

New Delhi, June 9 (PTI): Finance minister Arun Jaitley will meet the heads of public sector banks and financial institutions on June 12 to discuss issues related to rising bad loans, interest rate reduction and credit flow to various sectors. He will also review the performance of the lenders. The meeting assumes significance as it will be the first after the promulgation of the ordinance amending the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, last month. The government had through this ordinance empowered the Reserve Bank of India to ask banks to initiate insolvency proceedings to recover bad loans and promised more measures to resolve the (NPA) crisis. "Major issues on the agenda of the meeting, the first during this fiscal, include issues and solutions relating to non performing assets (NPAs) of the public sector banks (PSBs), status of MSE credit, Stand-up India and Mudra Yojana among others," the finance ministry said in a statement today. Other issues on the agenda include discussion on financial inclusion and literacy, review of performance of social security schemes, including the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and the Atal Pension Yojana (APY), it said. The day-long meeting will also cover areas such as cyber security, digitalisation of banking transactions, rural development, agriculture credit and education loans. The role and preparedness of banks in the implementation of goods and services tax (GST) is also likely to be discussed in the one-day meeting of PSBs, it said. The GST is going to be rolled-out from July 1. As for the recovery of bad loans, the RBI has also made substantial changes in the related norms and warned banks of monetary penalty for missing NPA resolution timelines. Jaitley had said the ordinance empowered the Reserve Bank to issue "directions to any banking company or banking companies to initiate insolvency resolution process in respect of a default under the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016". Toxic loans of PSBs rose by over Rs 1 lakh crore to Rs 6.06 lakh crore during April-December 2016-17. Gross NPAs of public sector banks nearly doubled to Rs 5.02 lakh crore at the end of March 2016, from Rs 2.67 lakh crore at the end of March 2015.

Nearly 58 lakh Employees Provident Fund pensioners will now get medical benefits, labour minister Bandaru Dattatreya said in the Lok Sabha on Friday.Regarding the pensioners, we are going to give the pensioners benefit under the ESIC (Employees State Insurance Corporation) to those who are retired pensioners. We will be providing all medical services to the retired pensioners. 58 lakh pensioners will be benefited, he said.Dattatreya was replying to a debate on a private members resolution moved by RSP member NK Premachandran on Steps To Ensure Welfare of Employees Provident Fund Pensioners.A meeting of the EPFO Board on Thursday had on its agenda a proposal to provide health insurance scheme to pensioners of the Employees Pension Scheme through Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC).Although the board agreed in principle to approve the proposal but a final call would be taken on this in the next meeting of the CBT.Earlier, back of the envelop calculations done by ESI had estimated Rs 200 monthly premium per person for providing health cover under its scheme to the EPFO pensioners.The proposal is aimed at providing health cover to EPFO pensioners, who get very little amount as pension and hence healthcare is out of their reach.Hukum Narayan Yadav (BJP), while participating in the debate, demanded pension for farmers and agricultural labourers.Anandrao Adsul (Shiv Sena) said unclaimed pension fund of around Rs 27,000 crore which has been deposited should be utilised for the people.Ravindra Kumar Rai (BJP) said Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay was of view that policies of the country should be according to the country and added the present government under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Narendra Modi we are leading the same direction.Contending that the present government wants to spread the ray of hope for those who are suffering from destitute, Rai said We are not working for the political intent but with social ethos.He also suggested that in every district some amount should be kept aside for the needy which should be allocated to them when there is a need.Pashupati Nath Singh (BJP) said the unclaimed fund of about Rs 27,000 crore lying with EPFO belongs to poor and it should be utilised to provide relief to the poor only.Poor people due to lack of awareness or information about rules for drawal could not withdraw so it is lying unused with the the EPFO, he said.The government has taken various steps to make India a pensioned society, he added.Due to efforts of the government, the shift of PF fund from one organisation to other has become seamless, said Jugal Kishor Sharma (BJP).

NEW DELHI: The Centre today extended the deadline for obtaining Aadhaar for availing government schemes and subsidies by three months to December 31.The extension is, however, only for those who are yet to apply of Aadhaar, an order issued by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said. As many as 135 schemes (of 35 ministries) including the free cooking gas (LPG) to poor women, kerosene and fertiliser subsidy, targeted public distribution system (PDS) and MGNREGA will be covered by the extension.The government had previously made quoting of Aadhaar necessary for availing government benefits and subsidies like those on cooking gas LPG. Those who did not have Aadhaar were asked to procure the unique identification number by September 30. This deadline has now been extended till December 31, the order said."As a result of the review of welfare schemes covered and to provide the benefits of such schemes to all eligible beneficiaries of the scheme, it has been decided to further extend the stipulated date in all such notifications up to December 31, 2017," the order said.The extension would also apply for Employees' Pension Scheme of 1995, scholarships, housing subsidy benefit, stipend to SC/ST trainees for coaching guidance and vocational training, stipend to handicapped, Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana, national apprenticeship and skill development schemes, crop insurance schemes, interest subvention scheme, scholarship and fellowship schemes, various education programmes such as mid- day meal for children and Atal Pension Yojana."It is hereby clarified that this extension shall only apply to those beneficiaries who are not assigned Aadhaar number or those who have not yet enrolled for Aadhaar. Such beneficiaries are required to enroll for Aadhaar by December 31, 2017 and provide their Aadhaar number or enrolment ID," it said. A source said that there will be no denial of services in the interim period.

Protesting powerloom workers. Express Protesting powerloom workers. ExpressWITH THE regional office of the Employees Provident Fund Office (EPFO) in Solapur ordering 17 powerloom units owned by one family to apply EPF with retrospective effect from 2002, the Powerloom Owners Association (POA) comprising more than 13,000 units has been on an indefinite strike since October 7. This has rendered more than 42,000 workers jobless ahead of Diwali. While the powerloom owners have said the EPFO rules do not apply to them, the workers in Solapur have decided to observe a Black Diwali.The dispute between the powerloom owners and the workers began over the EPF issue after Regional EPF Commissioner Hemant Tirpude issued an order on July 31, 2017, asking members of the Myakal family, which owns at least 17 powerloom units, to implement the EPF rule retrospectively from 2002. Tirpude, in his order, also asked officials to carry out inspections of similar units for implementation of the EPF rule. This is for the first time such an order has been issued by an EPF office in the country to bring powerloom workers under the purview of the Act, to extend the benefits of provident fund to powerloom workers.Tirpude said the order was issued based on the principles of functional independency and integrality, unity of ownership and unity of purpose. In case of the Myakal family, the Himalaya Textiles was a trading firm and was in the business of chaddars till 1992 and then was involved in trading of towels till 2000. After that it created paper entities to avoid the legal obligations of the EPF. They are owned by a single family, are run from the same premises and all the business activities are controlled by them under different names, said Tirpude.Satyaram Myakal, owner of Himalaya Trading, said the order had been challenged before the industrial tribunal. There are several flaws in the order that would be pointed out before the tribunal. Though the order has been challenged, there has been no stay granted, he said. Following the July order, the powerloom workers unions demanded implementation of the EPF rule, which apparently led to panic among the owners. The powerloom workers are not covered under the EPF though they have been working for past more than three decades. They are not entitled to benefits such as Employees State Insurance Corporation or any other social security benefits. The powerloom owners have been violating all the labour laws to deny the labourers their rightful benefits, said Narasayya Adam, a labour leader and also part of the joint action committee of powerloom workers.Adam further said many owners had created separate entities to avoid paying any benefit to workers. Though the regional EPF commissioner has asked to implement it retrospectively from 2002, considering it will cause huge burden on the finances of the powerloom owners, we have demanded that the EPF should be implemented from April 2016 at least. But they are opposed to that too. Most of the workers are in their fifties and if the PF is implemented from April 2016, they will be able get some amount at the time of retirement, added Adam, former legislator and a leader of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). He said all powerloom workers were demonstrating quietly on the issue and had decided to observe a Black Diwali.Following Tirpudes order, the POA had kept units shut for six days in August and has now once again gone on indefinite strike. The EPF is not applicable to the powerloom industry as every unit is a separate legal entity employing less than 10 workers. All the powerloom units in Solapur employ only six-seven employees each. Also, the units should not be clubbed together for implementation of EPF. The EPF, a national Act, is applicable to all. Then, why it is being implemented in Solapur only and not in places like Ichalkaranji, Madurai, Panipat, etc, said Pentappa Gaddam, president of the POA. The EPF is applicable to the units or establishments employing 20 or more people.Gaddam said a committee should be appointed to study all aspects pertaining to EPF and should be implemented at national level. However, officials said the EPFO in Delhi issued a circular on August 4, 2017, asking all offices in Maharashtra to implement the EPF Act in all areas in Bhiwandi, Ichalkaranji, Malegon and Solapur. An official from the state EPF office claimed that the circular was issued after the labour unions approached Delhi with the order issued by Solapur office.For all the latest Mumbai News, download Indian Express App

gurugramUpdated: Jul 30, 2020 23:38 ISTTo provide ration to needy people and bolster the public distribution system (PDS) of the state, the Haryana government may introduce mobile ration depots in densely populated areas, where conventional fair price shops often fail to meet the demand. Dushyant Chautala, deputy chief minister, Haryana, announced the proposed plan on Thursday, while speaking at a programme on the one nation, one ration card scheme. Later Chautala also distributed ration to migrants workers from other states at John Hall in Civil Lines.Existing fair price shops are unable to meet the demand of the people. As such, mobile ration depots can be set up to serve in the densely populated areas of the state, in addition to the existing fair price shops, said Chautala, while addressing the gathering. He added that an example of this mobile unit has set by the food supplies department at John Hall, which distributed free ration to the migrant workers, who had gathered at the programme, from a mobile unit set up specifically for this purpose.Addressing the gathering, the deputy CM said that the new ration scheme will have three significant benefits for the poor, who avail ration at subsidised rates from the government-designated shops. First, any ration card holder will be able to take his or her share of ration from any ration depot wherever ration is available. Second, any ration card holder, irrespective of the state to which he or she belongs, will be able to get his/her share of prescribed ration from any other state as well. Third, the ration card holder can also get the ration from the depot of his choice by assessing the quality and quantity of the ration being offered, said Chautala.The problems faced by migrant workers to avail ration during the Covid-19 lockdown led to the idea of One Nation, One Ration Card scheme. The facility of keeping a digital record by attaching a POS machine with an e-weighing machine has also been started in Haryana. With this, the public distribution system in the state is now being digitally monitored, he said.Under the scheme, the beneficiaries would be able to get his or her share of entitled foodgrains from any fair price shop in the country. The scheme was introduced in four states in 2019 as a pilot project. and at present has been implemented across 20 states in India. Under this scheme, a standard ration card with biometrics records of the holder has been prepared that can be used across the country, said officials. Haryana was among the first states to have implemented the scheme.Director, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Dr Chander Shekhar Khare, said that this scheme will curb the problem of fake ration cards, while ration depot holders will also be prompted to give good quality ration in full quantity. Khare also informed that this scheme will be implemented in the entire country by March 2021.Benefits for Contractual WorkersEarlier in the day, the deputy CM also chaired the second meeting of the State Advisory Contract Labour Board held at the PWD Guest House.In the meeting, Chautala said it has been decided to link all registered sites and organisations employing contract labour with the Haryana Udyam Memorandum (HUM) within the next six months.With this move all contract workers, especially construction workers will have to be registered which will help them get all the benefits prescribed under the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) rules and Employees State Insurance (ESI) Act, he said.It was also decided in this meeting that, in the next 6 months, it will be ensured that all organisations employing contractual labour have a HUM number. Under this, the registration of contractors and workers will be done with their Aadhaar number. The labour department will also confirm that every such organisation is registered. After February 1, 2021, if any contractor or organisation is not found registered, then strict action will be taken against it, he said.The second important agenda in the meeting was to allow employment of contract labour in the units related to the rubber industry. In this case, it was decided to invite suggestions from all industrial associations and trade unions, following which the labour board will take a decision.A number of trade union representatives also called upon the deputy CM and apprised him of the grievances faced by workers particularly because of the lay-offs during and after the lockdown.

The Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana that were announced by finance minister Arun Jaitley in the Union Budget 2015-16.A plethora of new schemes for pension and insurance are set to be launched this year by the government with an aim to provide universal social security. Contrary to popular perception, many of these will be available to all citizens and not just to those living close to the poverty line.The three key schemes include Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana that were announced by finance minister Arun Jaitley in the Union Budget 2015-16.Pointing out that a large proportion of the countrys population is without insurance of any kind, the minister had announced, Worryingly, as our young population ages, it is also going to be pension-less. Encouraged by the success of the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana, I propose to work towards creating a universal social security system for all Indians, specially the poor and the under-privileged.The finance minister has already held one round of meeting with public sector banks on the launch of these schemes. The plan is to implement these on the same scale as account opening under the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana. To ensure ease for customers, subscription and claim forms will be kept simple and the finance ministry is also thinking in terms of empowering banks to enable faster claim resolution under these schemes.Significantly, in the interim, the Employees Provident Fund Organisation has also proposed a new social security fund  the Unorganised Sector Workers Social Security Fund that can be joined by any private sector worker.The Indian Express takes a closer look at each of these schemes:Atal Pension Yojana: A co-contributory fixed pension scheme, the Atal Pension Yojana will be focused at unorganised sector workers who are not members of any social security scheme. The scheme is expected to be launched from June 1, 2015.Under the APY, subscribers would receive a fixed monthly pension of Rs 1,000; Rs 2,000; Rs 3,000; Rs 4,000 or Rs 5000, depending on his or her contribution, starting from the age of 60 years.The minimum age for joining the scheme is 18 years and the maximum is 40 years with a minimum contribution period of 20 years. Contributions would vary from as little as Rs 48 a month for a Rs 1,000 pension to Rs 248 a month for a pension of Rs 5,000 per month, according to a finance ministry official.The Central government would provided a fixed return by co-contributing either 50 per cent of the subscribers contribution or Rs 1,000 per year whichever is lower; for a period of five years from 2015-16 to 2019-20 for subscribers who join the National Pension System before the end of this year.However, do keep in mind that the Central government contribution would be available only for those subscribers who are not income tax payers. The existing subscribers of the NPS Swavalamban scheme would be migrated to the APY, unless they opt out of it, according to note prepared by the department of financial services in the finance ministry.The scheme would be administered by the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority and investments would be done on the pattern as that for NPS for central government officers.Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana: A personal accident cover, it will be available to all citizens in the age group of 18 to 70 years and have an Aadhar-linked bank account.The scheme provides a cover of Rs 2 lakh in case of accidental death or full disability and a cover of Rs 1 lakh in case of partial disability.The premium is a more than reasonable Rs 12 per year along with service tax. Of this, while Rs 10 would be for the insurance company, Rs 1 each would be given to the bank and the banking correspondent or the micro-insurance agent.The cover would be for a period from June 1 to May 31, renewable every year. In the first year of its launch, the subscription period is likely to be extendable till August 31. After that, the cover would commence from the 1st of the month after the premium is paid.To opt in for the scheme, subscribers would have to fill a subscription form with their bank and an auto debit option.According to the DFS note, banks are expected to tie up with any general insurer which wants to offer the cover.Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana: As the name suggests, the scheme provides life insurance cover of up to Rs 2 lakh for death by any reason.Renewable every year, it will start from June 1 for a one year period till May 31. This scheme too will be open to all subscribers between the age of 18 years to 50 years who have an Aadhar linked bank account. However, the coverage under the scheme can go up to 55 years if premium is paid over after attaining the age of 50 years.According to an internal note of the DFS, subscribers would have to pay an annual premium of Rs 330 along with service tax. Of this, Rs 289 would be paid to the insurance company, Rs 11 to the bank and Rs 30 to the banking correspondent or the micro-insurance agent.As in the case of the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, subscribers who want a life insurance cover would have to fill a subscription form with their bank and allow auto debit option. For the first year of the launch, the subscription period would be extendable till August 31 and the cover would commence from 1st of the month after which the premium is paid.Unorganised Sector Workers Social Security Fund: The scheme, which has been proposed by the labour ministry as part of the amendments to the EPF and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 would provide benefits of provident fund, pension and insurance to voluntary subscribers. It would be run by the EPFO and aimed at informal sector workers.However, unlike the EPF, subscribers to this new scheme would have the option to contribute funds as and when they have money  as in the case of a mutual fund.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App

In broad terms, two features distinguish the social sector strategy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. First, it endeavours to make existing programmes more efficient by cutting leakages. And second, it gives priority to empowerment over entitlement.Early in its tenure, the government achieved a major success in financial inclusion with empowerment through the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana. This scheme proposed to give a bank account to every family. The programme entered the Guinness Book of Records for opening 1.8 crore accounts in one week from August 23 to 29, 2014. By May 2016, the scheme had opened 21.74 crore accounts, with Rs.37,445 crore in deposits.Straight to the beneficiaryAlongside this, the Prime Minister not only took the pragmatic decision of retaining and rapidly expanding the Aadhaar biometric identification programme but also accelerated its deployment to cut wasteful expenditure in the delivery of social programmes. Recently, legislation has been passed that empowers the government to require the beneficiary of services financed from the Consolidated Fund of India to provide her Aadhaar identity number. In turn, the government can link the beneficiarys Aadhaar identity number and bank account to which benefits are transferred. This direct benefit transfer (DBT) instrumentality complemented by Aadhaar seeding of the bank account eliminates the possibility of benefits accruing to multiple accounts of the same beneficiary or ghost accounts.Large social programmes such as the Public Distribution System (PDS), the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and subsidised sales of fertilizer and liquid petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders have been subject to massive leakages through the use of multiple and ghost accounts. These leakages can now be plugged through the DBT-cum-Aadhaar instrumentality. The government has already successfully done this in the disbursement of the subsidy associated with the PDS, MGNREGA and LPG cylinders though the coverage remains far from complete. Not all bank accounts have been linked to Aadhaar.To date, an estimated 3.5 crore multiple or ghost beneficiaries have been eliminated from the LPG rolls. During 2014-15 alone, this resulted in savings of Rs.14,672 crore. In MGNREGA, similar weeding out of multiple or ghost beneficiaries has resulted in a saving of Rs.3,000 crore in 2015-16. This amount is a little below 10 per cent of the total MGNREGA allocation. In PDS, an estimated Rs.10,000 crore has been saved by eliminating 1.6 crore fake ration cards using Aadhaar instrumentality.To empower rural households, the government has greatly accelerated the process of rural electrification and rural road construction. During its two years in office, the government has supplied electricity to 7,654 villages compared with 5,189 villages in the preceding three years. Likewise, the total rural road length constructed has been 36,340 and 36,450 km during 2014-15 and 2015-16 respectively. In comparison, only 24,160 and 25,320 km has been constructed during 2012-13 and 2013-14, respectively.Clean cooking strategyApproximately 12 crore households in India continue to use solid biomass fuels for cooking, with the attendant harmful effects on health. To date, no serious effort has been made to free these households of the black carbon they inhale while cooking. For years, efficient cooking stoves have been promoted but they cover less than 1 per cent of the affected families.For the first time too, the government has resolved to bring LPG cylinders to these households. The government has launched the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana under which five crore below poverty line households will be provided subsidised LPG cylinders over the next three years. The target for the current fiscal year is 1.5 crore households. The scheme is being financed in part from the savings generated through the voluntary surrender of the LPG subsidy by existing richer households. After the Prime Ministers appeal, one crore richer households have already given up this subsidy.Social security platformIn the Budget 2015-16, the government launched the Atal Pension Yojana (APY) to provide a minimal insurance cover to workers in the unorganised sector. Under the scheme, the Central government co-contributes the lower of 50 per cent of the total contribution and Rs.1,000 per annum to each subscriber account for a period of five years. Depending on his contribution, a subscriber under the age of 40 receives the fixed monthly pension of Rs.1,000 to Rs.5,000 at the age of 60 years.In parallel, the Central government has also introduced the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (insurance against accidental death) and the Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (insurance against death) schemes. The former provides cover for Rs.2 lakh in case of death and Rs.1 lakh in case of partial disability to individuals between 18 to 70 years for a premium of Rs.12 per annum. The latter covers individuals between 18 and 50 years for Rs.2 lakh at a premium of Rs.330 per year. By May 9, 2016, 9.4 crore beneficiaries had enrolled under the Suraksha Bima Yojana and three crore under the Jeevan Jyoti scheme. Enrolment in APY  at 20 lakh  was significantly lower.Budget 2016-17 announced three major initiatives related to health: insurance, the Jan Aushadhi scheme and a dialysis programme. Under the health insurance scheme, coverage for Rs.1 lakh is provided against hospitalisation expenditure. For senior citizens, there is an additional cover of Rs.30,000. The government will cover eight crore families from economically weaker sections free of charge through an Aadhaar-linked programme. Under the Jan Aushadhi programme, the government will open 3,000 stores nationwide to provide low-cost, generic drugs. With 2.2 lakh new cases of end-stage renal disease patients added each year, the government has also announced a programme to provide dialysis services in all district hospitals.The government has introduced several measures towards improved implementation of MGNREGA. It has given priority to low-hanging fruit such as water ponds and de-silting of water ponds in asset creation. It has also taken a more liberal approach towards building of private assets such as houses, wells and toilets for the poor. This has created ownership of assets by the respective beneficiaries and led to better supervision of work. Finally, the government has improved convergence between MGNREGA works and schemes such as skill development, the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana (PMKSY), Housing for All and the Swachh Bharat Mission.Reform in educationIn the area of higher education, regulations have been liberalised to give greater flexibility to women to complete their MPhil and PhD degrees. Upon fulfilling certain conditions, women PhD scholars relocating to other towns can now transfer to a university in the destination town rather than having to begin afresh. Rules have also been liberalised to give autonomy to colleges that receive the highest accreditation grade for three consecutive cycles from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council.Furthermore, the government has committed to turning 10 private and 10 public institutions into world-class teaching and research institutions. Steps towards achieving this objective can lead to far-reaching reform of the higher education system in India. Separately, the government has made the reform of medical education in India a higher priority, assigning the task to a high-level committee.The discussion of social sector reform and programmes will be incomplete without a brief reference to the Swachh Bharat Mission. The mission is not only critical for a healthy India but also essential to creating a modern India. Among other things, it proposes to make India open defecation free by October 2, 2019, the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The number of toilets built has risen from five million in 2013-14 to 5.88 million in 2014-15 and 12.7 million in 2015-16.This documentation is by no means complete. There is much else being done via housing for all, the PMKSY, livelihood mission and more that touches peoples lives. The distinguishing feature of the policies under the present government is that they promise to sustain high growth in GDP, revenues and social spending and deliver social services more efficiently and effectively.Arvind Panagariya is Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog. Views are personal and may not be attributed to either the Government of India or NITI Aayog.

Halfway through his term as the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, firebrand BJP leader Yogi Adityanath sat down for an interview with News18 Networks Group Editor-in-chief Rahul Joshi on the work done in the last two and half years, and his plans for the next two and half.In the exclusive interview, set in the Gorakhnath temple of Gorakhpur, Adityanath discussed a range of issues, including the recent controversy over making Hindi the unifying language in the country, the law and order situation in the state, his polarising remarks of Bajrang Bali and Green Virus during the Lok Sabha elections, the delays in the investigation of the Unnao rape case, and the Ram Mandir dispute, among other things.Here are the edited excerpts from the interview:Rahul Joshi: We have come to Gorakhpur temple today to talk to the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. Thanks a lot for talking to us.Yogi Adityanath: Thank you.RJ: We've been spending time here since yesterday. We visited the temple too. The fact that you run this is a big thing in itself. How you manage to strike a balance between politics and your responsibilities here?YA: See, these are not two different responsibilities. It is one large responsibility. This is one system that has been going on for hundreds of years. We are a small part of it.Religion, in the context of Indian culture, is a way of life. This is closely associated with public welfare and welfare of the self. When we talk about religion, there are two aspects that come forward. One of its rise and another when it settled. The first aspect teaches us to spend our lifetime in the good of others. Doing everything we can to benefit others. It talks about associating oneself in the science of a better existence. The second aspect is about finding the self. The two are deeply linked and are one.Both of these, in the context of Indian culture, are the basis of everything. One is the smaller version, while the other is the larger version of the same thing.RJ: Our audiences would want to know how your journey started. When and how did you reach here? How did you spend your time here?YA: This the highest Peeth of the Nath community. Nath community is an important branch of the Hindu Sanatan. It was through Goraksha Peethadhishwar Mahant Avaidyanath Ji Maharaj in the early 90s that I got a chance to come here. He went on to give me Yog Diksha. After giving me Yog Diksha, he taught me the rules and regulations of the Sanatan Dharma. After learning all this from him, I was inducted formally into the system. Today, we associate this place with the cosmic development of people.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and our party chief Amit Shah have handed me the responsibility of Uttar Pradesh and I have taken it up for the same motive with which I came to the Peeth.RJ: We are with chief minister Yogi Adityanath, right in front of the cowshed. It is said there are 300-350 cows here and there was a time when you knew each of them by their name. You fed pooris to each one of them. How did you manage that?YA: In the last 2.5 years, my connection has snapped. Otherwise, every cow here and their calves knew me. The older cows still recognise me. The new ones, however, have not been able to recognise me because I get to come here only once a month now. And sometimes it so happens that I am not able to come here because of my busy schedule.Otherwise, earlier, I used to call everyone by their name and they used to come. It felt really nice. Of late, the connection has weakened because of my work. Every cow here has an Indian origin. The local species of Gir, Saiwal are here. There are some from Haryana. Other good quality bovine are also here.RJ: Cow happens to hold special importance in the Hindu religion. What is your take on that? For example, when we go to urban spaces like Delhi and Mumbai, people there make fun of this and call it obsession for cows. How do you take this?YA: With India being an agrarian country, bovine plays an important role. And I feel that people need to travel to villages and farmlands to understand the importance of cows. I believe that one cow can not only take care of an entire family's needs, but can also provide for 30 acres of farmland. The chemical fertilisers that one buys can easily be substituted with cow dung and cow urine. Cows are also important in the context of zero-budget farming that was institutionalised by the late Manohar Parrikar as Goa CM and Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat.Secondly, it is what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has focussed on in previous years and has been focussing on this year. He started Pashu Arogya Mela in Mathura and also talks about doubling farmers' income. With farming, he also focusses on cattle that is used by farmers, which is why he started the Pashu Arogya Mela.The movement against single-use plastic that was started by us not only helps the environment, but will also help save animals from dangerous plastic.RJ: How do you tackle the issue of stray cattle? You have hundreds of crores in this scheme...YA: Yes, it is going on. This scheme has just started. We have started a campaign on stray cattle. That will be a successful campaign. As of now, there are roughly 3.5 lakh stray cattle in the state. We have come up with a scheme which says that if anybody wants to keep a stray cow in their house, we will pay them Rs 900 per month on the condition that they take care of the cow. The person will also need to take the cow to a veterinarian every month where she is checked and examined. We will pay them for all of this.RJ: It has been seen that Hindus are leaving their cows once they stop providing milkYA: See, there are two sides to this argument. One is the financial condition of the common people. Second, for the common man, a cow that provides 100-200 millilitres of milk is not viable. To address this issue, we have started a new practice. We are trying to make sure that the cows are of a superior origin. Secondly, during the times of mechanical farming, the use of oxen and calves has reduced.RJ: You have completed 2.5 years as the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. Our viewers would want to know what you consider your biggest achievement.YA: Changing the perception of Uttar Pradesh. The entire country believed that nothing can happen in Uttar Pradesh and there were people who believed that Uttar Pradesh has extortion and corruption, and that no development can ever happen here. In the last 2.5 years, our government has managed to change that perception.Our government has laid the foundation for good governance and development in the last 2.5 years. It is the result of this that three large events have taken place in the state this year. This includes Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj, Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas and peaceful Lok Sabha elections on 80 seats. Also, no repolling was needed in any of the booths unlike in West Bengal where repolling was needed in all seven phases. During every phase and in every booth, there was violence in West Bengal. Dozens of people were killed.There has been no riot or kidnapping in the state in the last 2.5 years. There has been a spike in investments because of better law and order. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2014 changed the agenda of the nation. The focus earlier was on caste and creed; now it has been changed to villages, poor, women and youth. Now we can see large-scale results. It is the result of all this that we have been able to be successful in the state.Earlier, there used to be farmer protests in every two-three months. But in the last 2.5 years, there have been no farmer agitations. This is because we have extended all central and state benefits to farmers, which is why they are happy. In order to free farmers from the burden of debt, we started loan waivers. Uttar Pradesh is the first state that successfully implemented loan waivers. Today, the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana, Krishi Sichai Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Sammaan Nidhi Yojana have all been successfully implemented in the state. Payments for sugarcane farmers were pending for years. Our state government has released payments worth Rs 73,000 crore.For the first time, a new procurement policy has come, free from all middlemen. A system where a farmer is getting more than the MSP and his cost of production. Providing more than the MSP not only brings happiness to the farmer's family, but also increases his income.RJ: Today, in the country as well as the state, in the context of economy, the biggest issue is that of jobs for the youth. In the last five years, it was being said that there has been jobless growth. There has been growth, but not many jobs have been generated. Now because there is a slowdown, people are losing their jobs too.YA: What you are calling economic recession is nothing but a slowdown and this is the case globally. The entire world is affected by this and naturally India is going through the same. However, Uttar Pradesh will not be affected by this because there is robust growth in two sectors in the state -- agriculture and MSMEs. Therefore Uttar Pradesh will not be affected.Secondly, the state government, in the last 2.5 years, has provided 2.25 lakh jobs to the youth of Uttar Pradesh. In the next 2.5 years, we plan to provide 2 lakh more jobs.Apart from this, we have helped 30 lakh youth attain financial independence by means of business investment strategies. In the last 2.5 years, Uttar Pradesh saw investments northwards of Rs 2 lakh crore. One product, one district scheme has been launched that promotes indigenous forms of production. We have also paid special focus to MSMEs in the state. We started a program for its mapping, marketing and packaging. And I am happy that there is now enough scope for export in this.In the five years of this government, roughly 25 lakh youth will be linked to MSMEs and one product, one district scheme and will be provided with financial independence via jobs and other forms of employment.RJ: We will continue with this discussion, but since you have brought us here (inside the temple), we want to know what exactly happens here, what is the importance of this place?YA: This is the temple's assembly hall, which has been built in my Guru Dada's name. My Guru Mahant ji Adityanath made this in the memory of his guru. Every religious event that takes place is concluded here. There are two additional highlights about this place. The stage that you see there has pictures of every Mahant Ji. Above it is a library that has books on ancient India. Research scholars get scholarships and a lot of material from here. There is a third highlight too.Portraits of other hermits and people who have influenced the nation in a positive manner. You fill find Guru Nanak Dev Ji here along with Guru Govind Singh Ji, Sant Kabir Das, Ravi Das Ji, Meera Bai, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Rana Pratap.RJ: You came here from Paudhi Garhwal. You became Yogi Adityanath from Ajay Kumar Bisht. What did you learn from here?YA: My sadhna is entirely spiritual. There can be curiosity in the mind of a man. My entire sadhna is through Goraksha Peeth and Nath community. In politics, going forward with public welfare campaigns, I am only taking my sadhna forward. This Peeth alone caters to educational and other needs of more than four dozen places. Lastly, on how to completely immerse my public life for welfare, I got my inspiration from Modi Ji. Due to this, we have not only been able to carry forward welfare activities in the state, but have also excelled in them.RJ: You were talking law and order. Uttar Pradesh is generally referred to as the encounter state. And you have defended that as well in the form of a bullet for every bullet. Do you think that has brought about improvement in the law and order situation in the country? Even today, incidents such as Unnao rape happen.YA: Cases such as Unnao rape have nothing to do with law and order situation in the state. We also have to understand that these cases are associated with the mindset of the people. People need to be taught good things for these things to end. We have to remember that the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh is at its best in the last 15-20 years. The administration's sensitivity towards the common man and the seriousness of acting on complaints needs to be credited. The second important thing that needs to be remembered is that when the culprit starts shooting, our jawan cannot sit there with folded hands. They need to be answered in the language of a culprit, a history-sheeter.RJ: You have come here to meet the peopleYA: I come here to meet peopleRJ: We saw just now that you were helping people. Everybody expects something from you. They come to you with their problems through the DM, Commissioner and DG. What do you do with those applications? How do you deal with them?YA: We have finalised some ways to solve the problems of the common people. Firstly, every officer will sit to listen to public issues from 9:30-10:30am on a daily basis and we will solve the issues within a particular time period. Secondly, we have started a portal here, the IGRS portal, where people across the state can register their complaint. The problem is solved by the administration, starting from the district level. Thirdly, if there is any carelessness in any of the administrative department or the problem is not being solved, there is a CM helpline.The fourth one is the anti-corruption portal. The aim of this portal is that if anybody is asking for a bribe or if anybody is not completing the work on time, people can upload the audio or video of the person. After that, the CM office will verify the proof and will take action. I personally evaluate everything on a monthly basis. The public comes with their problems. We try to solve their issues within a limited period of time, but we also try to solve everything on merit.RJ: I want to know how many hours you work in a day. We are with you since 6am. When do you wake up and when do you sleep?YA: Since childhood, I used to wake up at 4 am. The puja at the temple starts from 3am, so our priests at the temple and everybody involved have to wake up at 2:30am at bramhamuhurat so that they can complete the puja. I get involved in the puja by 4am. Whether I am in Gorakhpur or Lucknow, this process goes on till late night. If I am on field visit, then I try to complete the process by 11-11:30 at night. When I am at Lucknow, it goes on till 12-12:30am. This is a part of the continuous process. The management was off the track so more effort was required initially, but now everything is on track and this is not the situation right now.RJ: Now let us discuss some points on the economic situation of Uttar Pradesh. How will you bring the private sector investment in your state? I remember that when you came to power, you wanted to bring Samsung and TCS here. Is there any investment by the private sector? GDP growth is declining, how will you handle that?YA: UPs growth has increased, not decreased. We have framed a policy for industrial development. Secondly, for any investment, people need security. They want to save themselves from that web, so people need a solution. We started our policy along with the security measures and this is the reason that within 2.5 years, we have been successful in bringing more than Rs 2 lakh crore investment to our state. We are also focused on our MSME sector. Uttar Pradesh has prospered a lot in this. Our one product, one district policy We brought this considering the growth of MSME sector. I believe that both these sectors have been really important to us and we have got huge investment in this area. Now, everybody knows that there is an investment guarantee in Uttar Pradesh. People know about UP's better connectivity, big market and cheaper manpower. Now we are working to improve the investment rate.RJ: Don't you think that mob lynching incidents in UP and riot-like situations affect investment?YA: No, it used to happen, it doesn't happen now. In 2.5 years, there has been no riot. Secondly, there has been no incident of mob lynching in UP because we removed elements that incite riots in the first stage. We stopped illegal slaughtering at an early stage. We brought in well-managed shelters for cows.RJ: So you want to say that the situation is better than before. Do you think that you were late to reacting in the Unnao rape case?YA: No. The matter is still in court. We gave the case to the CBI. We arrested the accused and our government took the matter forward. If there was any carelessness anywhere, we questioned them. Whether it was police or hospital, we analysed everything. The rape victim met with an accident on July 28. We want to know whether it was an incident or accident. It should come out and we hope the CBI gives a report soon. Everything will come to light soon.When some cases become fodder for media trial, we don't show all the aspects of the case to the society and the truth gets hidden. We need to be careful and I also want to appeal to the media that we should provide news, not our views. When we try to impose our views, it becomes an issue of media trial. It becomes a disaster and people stay unaware of the actual facts and the real criminal takes advantage of this.RJ: It seems that you feel this might be an accidentYA: In July 2017, the way the matter of children suffering from encephalitis was taken up in Gorakhpur people have been dying of encephalitis in Gorakhpur and eastern UP since the last 20-40 years, but the number of deaths were less in 2017 as compared to 2016. But it was said that the reason for deaths in 2017 was deficiency of oxygen and the media showed this for three straight days. They said children died due to oxygen deficiency. When we provide the news without knowing actual facts, we do injustice to people.RJ: Your work towards encephalitis is much appreciated. But we see in the Niti Aayog report that Uttar Pradesh is the last on the health index.YA: We have got a distorted management. In the Niti Aayog report for 2016-2017, Uttar Pradesh has a very low ranking. But after 2017-2018, I can say that under the guidance of our prime minister, the Niti Aayog selected 115 aspirational districts. If you see the list, UP has a good ranking for the last two years. Secondly, UP has been awarded for decreasing maternal mortality rate in Etawah and Ferozabad districts.We took steps towards prevention and cure of encephalitis. Not only this, I was the first person to bring the issue of encephalitis in front of the world. As an MP, and as a yogi, I started this fight. I took the campaign from streets roads to Parliament. The Swachh Bharat mission was started by the time I was given the charge of Uttar Pradesh, but it was not implemented in the state since the previous government was not interested in it. We implemented the Swachh Bharat mission in the state and the results are there for all to see.We made the health department as nodal department and with inter-departmental cooperation, we have brought encephalitis to almost zero level. And if this goes in the same way, then I think we will be able to eradicate encephalitis. What used to be a dream is turning into reality. Its foundation stone is Swachh Bharat mission which was initiated by the PM. If you talk about the health facilities, the previous government did not take the life support ambulances. Because of that, 23 crore people were deprived of the good facility, especially in case of accidents or during cardiac arrest. I took charge in March and we approached the central government in April. We got 150 life support ambulances. We provided two to each district. During the start of this year, we asked for 100 more ambulances and we got them. Today, we have 250 life support ambulances in the entire state.I think we helped 1 lakh people during their critical hour by providing them better medical facilities. We saved lives. From 1947 to 2016, there were only 12 medical colleges in the state. From 2016 to 2019, we built 15 medical colleges and we even started admissions this year in some colleges. Uttar Pradesh has 2 AIIMS, in Gorakhpur and Rae Bareli. We have also strengthened the district hospitals. There is lot to be done in this field. We have sent national mobile medical vans to villages where doctors were not willing to go. We implemented this wherever there was an issue.We also tried to provide better medical facilities to everyone. People who had the Ayushman Bharat card got the facilities, but 56 lakh people were deprived of this. We registered them in the Chief Minister Jan Arogya Yojna. This is a process and we are taking technology's help to make it better. We brought tele medicine facility in places that doctors never visited. We implemented this in Balrampur district. Balrampur is also a district where doctors never used to visit. We opened a KGMU satellite centre there. KGM doctors will visit there and this is the system we want implemented.RJ: I will go back to Lok Sabha elections. You are giving such a candid interview for the first time. I remember I met you during elections. In Kairana, Phulpur and Gorakhpur, when you lost in the by-elections, BJPs senior leaders also were not able to get more than 20-25 seats. You got 64 seats during the elections. How did you make the turn-around? At one time, it was being said that there are chances for Mahagathbandhan and that Muslim-Jat-Yadav combination was impossible to break. How did you perform there?YA: Before the elections, there was a slogan being raised - 'Modi Hai Toh Mumkin Hai'. Modi ji has a magical personality. We tried to make the programmes run under his guidance available to the last person. Secondly, Gorakhpur, Phulpur and Kairana by-election was a lesson for us. We analysed our mistakes and I started monitoring everything myself. PMs leadership, Amit Shah's strategy and our programmes helped us reach every poor person. People were already suffering from casteist and dynastic politics. People trusted us and BJP got 64 seats in Uttar Pradesh.RJ: Mayawati appealed to the people to vote for the Gathbandhan. You gave a statement at the time that if Congress, Samajwadi Party and the BSP have Ali, then we have Bajrang Bali. Do you believe that to be the turning point?YA: Every action has a reaction. If you have a vote bank, then we also have a vote bank. If you are proud of your vote bank, then we are also proud of ours. I did not mention any caste or community. I think a normal Hindu worships Bajrang Bali, but Mayawati appealed to a particular community. So I feel every action has a reaction, and public considered it.RJ: During those days, you also spoke about green virus and EC barred you from campaigning. How do you see it? Do you think you shouldn't have done it?YA: Not, it is not like that. If something is said, it is never that the person doesn't understand what he is saying. One part of the election is filled with communalism, and they are trying to provoke a certain class. We will give an answer to that. In politics, it is better to attack than be defensive and during election we did not do anything wrong. Modi ji's five-year tenure is the most ideal tenure after Independence.Whether it is infrastructure, economic growth, social servicesin any plan we implemented, we were never defensive. It was the same situation in the state. I had completed two years as UP CM by that time and we had a long list of developments. So we went to the public with that list and we made development and good governance our election issues. But when the opposition moved from these issues, we had to take some steps.RJ: So you agree that you took advantage of the polarisation, whoever did it?YA: We brought policies for villagers, farmers and women. They knew they would have to pay for what they did during their rule. People will compare and we brought the same comparison in front of the people. They also had 2.5 years after Modi ji became the PM. Samajwadi Party ruled UP for 2.5 years. They sanctioned only 63,000 applications under the PM Housing Scheme and our government is providing 25 lakh homes. Same with toilets. In the first 2.5 years, 3 crores toilets were to be constructed, but only 45 lakhs were built. Then our government came and in 2.5 years, we provided 2.61 crore toilets. That is the difference. Whenever we brought the comparison in front of the public, they appreciated us.RJ: Around 2.5 years ago, when you got a huge mandate in UP, your name was nowhere in the media for the CMs chair. In fact, speculation was rife about one of the cabinet ministers and suddenly one evening, you went to Delhi by a special flight and then your name was announced. How were you chosen?YA: I also did not know that I have to be the CM. I was nowhere in line, neither did I keep myself in the race. I campaigned in UP during elections. Wherever the party sent me, I campaigned. During the elections, foreign minister Sushma Swaraj called me. It was around February 25. She said, Yogi ji a parliamentary delegation is visiting Port Louis, you should go. I told her that I am not that interested and that I am involved in the election which was to continue till March 6. She said, You have to go after March 6 and we want you to lead this if you agree. I said I will have time after March 6, so I can go. The election ended on March 6, and on March 8, I went to Delhi. My passport was already sent. Around March 10, I was informed that the PMO has returned my passport and that I didnt have to go. Since it was counting day the next day, I took a flight for Gorakhpur and left. Sushma ji called me and said that the PM returned my passport and that it was important for me to stay in UP for counting day. The BJP won with a huge mandate. March 13 was Holi and I stayed in Gorakhpur. After Holi, I went to Delhi on the 16th. I went to attend the Parliamentary Party Meet. I met Amit Shah there. We had a normal discussion about the elections. He said, Don't leave Delhi, we will talk.RJ: He was giving you indicationsYA: It was not clear. I kept thinking that elections are over, we have got the results, then what does he want to discuss. On the 17th, I had a question in Parliament. After that, I took the afternoon flight and left for Gorakhpur. On 16th evening, I got a call from Amit Shah asking me where are you. I said I am in Gorakhpur. He asked me why I left when he had asked me to stay in Delhi. I said I came back to Gorakhpur since I had no work in Delhi. He said, Come to Delhi. It is urgent and we need to talk.It was 6 in the evening and I told him there was no immediate train or flight available. I would miss the last flight out of Lucknow too considering the travel time from Gorakhpur. He said, I am sending you a chartered plane tomorrow morning. You come to Delhi by that and don't tell anybody about this. I reached Delhi around 11am. Amit Shah said, Take this flight and go to Lucknow because in the evening at 4pm, you will be chosen as leader of the elected MLAs. You have to take the oath tomorrow. The decision was announced on 18th and I took the oath on 19th.RJ: It looks like you were in their mind always. Amit Shah was trying to hint to you. He kept saying don't leave Delhi.YA: Respected PM and Amit Shah must have thought something before electing me.RJ: This was the first time you talked about this. When the opposition was ruling, it was said that there were four-and-a-half chief ministers in the state, including Azam Khan. It is said that the organisation here is also a power centre. Is it still a 3-4 CM scenario?YA: Do you think that is the situation?RJ: No, I don't feel that. I am just asking.YA: UP has BJP-led government and government takes its own decisions. Yes, there is good balance between the government and the organisation. Balance is because we take the government programmes to the ground, but the organisation is necessary to provide feedback. In that situation and to keep a check on our plans, we keep a balance between the government and the organisation. Nobody is allowed to interfere in government matters. The government takes its decision keeping in mind the 23 crore people of the state.RJ: I had one more motive to ask this question. We have heard from our sources that you might bring a third deputy CM from the Dalit community.YA: No, nothing like that. We have already restructured our cabinet. You must have seen that we chose 18 ministers.RJ: I have seen that some were moved from their portfolios. Was this performance-based decision?YA: It was also based on performance.RJ: So you are saying there is no place for third deputy CM?YA: No. It was not required. The government is doing its work properly.RJ: The high court has removed 17 OBCs from the SC/ST list. How will this affect your politics and what are your future plans?YA: The high court gave this decision. In 2017, the division bench instructed the government to issue SC certificates to these 17 OBC categories, but this will depend on the final decision of the court. Considering this statement, department of social welfare brought these rules. The matter was already in court and the court evaluated this. These are parliamentary matters. Parliament can decide who should be included in the SC/ST category. The court instructed the head of social welfare department. They implemented this to save themselves from contempt. But this is also true that a big community was not getting the benefits of government plans. The most backward among OBCs and mahadalits among dalits should also get the benefits.RJ: Will you challenge this decision?YA: This was the high courts decision. We have formed a committee and we are evaluating this. A high-level committee is working.RJ: So you will take this forward?YA: It was not a government decision. The high court gave an instruction and the department followed it. It was part of the process.RJ: While I was coming here, I explored the areas around the temple. I saw many Muslims also live here and I have heard that people come here for offerings. I want to know, since you have given statements against Muslims, what is your relationship with the Muslim community?YA: I have the same relationship with them that I have with the rest of the people. We don't divide the society on the basis of caste and religion. I might have given statements considering the situation at the time. But yes, we have never tolerated communalism, hooliganism and we wont tolerate in future either.RJ: So you are saying that that your previous statements were in context to the situations?YA: Yes, during the situations at the time.RJ: Some people say that there is a difference between Yogi ji fighting for elections and Yogi ji as CM. He entered politics taking the hard line Hindutva but now it has changed.YA: See, poor is poor. Government plans should reach everybody without discrimination. It has been our motive that development is for everybody. Remember, in 2014, PM Modi said Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas. This is not a slogan, this is a reality and we are proud that we took everything to the ground-level. If we have given 25 lakh houses, all were not for Hindus. Muslim population in UP is 18%, but 30-35% Muslims have availed the benefits.RJ: You are saying that 18% population is Muslim, but people availing benefits are more.YA: Yes, it is double. They were poor. They needed benefits and we provided them. We did not provide help because they were Muslims. We defined a criteria and whoever fell into that category got the benefits. For us, it is the citizen of the state that matters.RJ: PM Modi also addressed one important issue in his August 15th speech. It was about population control. What is your view on this?YA: It is a very important issue and whatever resources we have right, there should be discussions on strengthening its quality. Whatever the development, if you are not be able to control population, it will always be a problem. You will have to keep in mind that development should be balanced and it should be for all. I think population control should be made more effective.RJ: Is the government thinking on this?YA: Yes, we will take steps whenever needed.RJ: So you are discussing about this?YA: Yes, discussion is still going on.RJ: Recently, Amit Shah said that to unite the country it is important that Hindi should be declared as the national language. What do you think about this?YA: Hindi is our official language. Respecting our official language or respecting anything which represents our country is our responsibility. The court can decide that along with English, things should be provided in local language. Like in Tamil Nadu, people speak Tamil, so English and Tamil both should be provided. Common man should also understand the court proceedings in Tamil. A common man doesn't understand English. It is good if you adopt Hindi also as an official language. If you go to Kerala, a common man knows Malayalam. So if Hindi also comes with English, it will be a good initiative. Bapu also said Hindi desh ki bindi hai. Hindi is our country's beauty. It will be good.RJ: As many as 50% people in the country do not speak Hindi. They speak a different language.YA: I am saying that for any work within the country, like for court proceedings, promote the local language there so that the common man knows what is happening. If you draft court proceedings in English, how much does the common man understand? How many people understand English? People will have options of Hindi and English. People will have freedom to choose.RJ: Many people have opposed this, including Mamata Banerjee and MK Stalin.YA: Some people have the nature to oppose. Women have been suffering Triple Talaq for ages. The Supreme Court wanted to help them and if the BJP formed a law, but they still oppose this. The whole country stood united with Amit Shah and PM Modi in scrapping provisions of Article 370, but there are some people who just want to oppose. They don't know what they are opposing, but they just want to oppose.RJ: Will the North and South be divided with this?YA: If you will promote Tamil in Tamil Nadu and if you give this as an option, you are saying you are not imposing. If we promote Hindi with the local language, it will be great. A Tamil Nadu resident doesn't have the right to work in Delhi? Can they not work in Lucknow, Bhopal or anywhere? If they learn about these languages, they will have multiple options. He/she can work anywhere.RJ: You mentioned Articles 370 and 35A. Did you expect that the Modi government will take such a step so soon?YA: There should not be any doubt about Modi ji's work and the way he has fulfilled people's expectations. We implemented around 125 government plans for people. Did anybody imagine that houses will be announced for the poor?People were laughing when the Prime Minister picked a broom for Swachh Bharat mission, but now this is a mass movement. One can talk about electricity connections, LPG connections or any plan which benefits the people like Jeeven Jyoti Beema policy, Jeevan Surakshsa Yojana, Atal Pension scheme or PM Mudra Yojana.There are many schemes for farmers. Plans were implemented for women, children, youth, farmers, poor and for everybody. People were waiting for this since Independence. After taking oath, PM spoke about people's expectations. Articles 370 and 35A are a part of that and I think only Modi ji could have done this.RJ: Don't you think tension with Pakistan is affecting the foreign investors. They might think that there is always tension between India and Pakistan, so they shouldn't invest?YA: No, nothing like that. The world is with India. It is proof of a successful policy when the entire world supports it. The way India has come forward with its international policy is a proof of good governance after Independence.RJ: You talked about NRC a few weeks ago. I want to know who are those infiltrators you were talking about?YA: Not only Uttar Pradesh, but India was struggling with internal security issues. In the previous years, infiltrators entered India and exploited our resources. They are a threat to national security. Most of these infiltrators are from Bangladesh. After it is successfully implemented (in Assam), then it will be implemented in other states.RJ: You said most infiltrators are from Bangladesh?YA: Bangladeshis, Pakistanis and from other places as well. We will take action against them.RJ: One question on Ram Mandir. BJP says mandir hum wahi banayenge, but they are not able to give any date. Suppose the court gives a decision against you, what will you do in that situation?YA: Decision is taken on the basis of facts and evidences. We are hopeful and we will follow the judgment of the Supreme Court. Earlier also, we followed what the Supreme Court said. It would have been good had the Muslim community taken an initiative to end this when the Supreme Court gave time for mediation, but that did not happen. It wouldn't have happened as people can only move towards a solution when they are thinking positively, but when they are stubborn about this, then only the Supreme Court can take a decision. This will only end after the Supreme Court takes a decision.RJ: There has been a major crackdown on corruption, to the extent that P Chidambaram is in Tihar, DK Shivkumar is also being taken to task by the ED. Whats really happening in UP?YA: Both the Centre and the state are not working with the motive of political revenge. If someone has done wrong, they will have to pay the price. If someone has broken the law, misused public money, then they cannot be saved. As I said, if someone is found guilty, there will be appropriate action against them.RJ: Mayawati has in the recent past supported a few decisions of the government, for example in the case of Kashmir. Is there a back-stage alliance going on?YA: BJP has no alliance with anybody else. As far as the Kashmir decision is concerned, it is like fulfilling the dream of Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar. It is like fulfilling the dream of Sardar Vallabhai Patel and there can never be a bigger honour to Shyama Prasad Mukherjee than this.RJ: There are two-three personal things that our viewers want to know about you. Who do you consult before taking any big decision?YA: We have a cabinet, there is a group of ministers. Any decision for the betterment of the state is taken in consultation with all ministers.RJ: What is your relation with Narendra Modi and Amit Shah?YA: Not on a day-to-day basis, but on bigger occasions like Kumbh Mela It was Modi ji who reminded me that there is going to be a Kumbh in 2019.RJ: You've made Ardha Kumbh all the more important by calling it just KumbhYA: See, there is no mention of Ardha in our culture. So, the Prime Minister had brought Kumbh to my attention and had said it is in 2019 and we must do it well. We had one-and-a-half years to prepare for it. He had expressed his desire to take this to the global level. We are also trying to have this included in UNESCO's cultural heritage list. We are also thinking of how to make this event global. We are never able to brand our achievements. So, we've set forth with all of this in mind. It is my good luck that Kumbh began with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Ganga pujan and all schemes and programs meant for Kumbh were inaugurated by Modi ji. It was great that Modi ji was also there when the Kumbh concluded where he praised our cleanliness, security and administration. He washed the feet of sanitary workers and set a very big example in front of the entire country.RJ: As you said, you work for 18-20 hours a day. How do you make time for yourself? What do you do in your free time?YA: I am a spiritual man. I complete my yogic activities in time along with all my pujas. In addition to this, I also make time for self-study. It makes me understand and know what is happening in the world outside. Along with this, I personally examine the schemes that every department is responsible for.RJ: Do you like Gorakhpur more or Lucknow?YA: Gorakhpur, apart from being my spiritual-ground is also my work-place. Lucknow is the place from where I am being able to serve the people of Uttar Pradesh. Earlier, from Gorakhpur, I was only able to serve a limited number of people, but now from Lucknow I am able to serve all 80 seats of Uttar Pradesh.RJ: On the one hand you are a Yogi, away from materialistic pleasures, and on the other you are attracted to politics and power. How do you strike a balance between these two opposing forces?YA: Only a Yogi can balance these two opposing forces. I can fight both these forces as someone who is attracted neither to power and politics nor to the fame associated with it. However, I want to do better in everything I do, better every day. Whenever there are hurdles in anything, I always seek the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah ji. I ask them on how to overcome hurdles to achieve the goal.Whether it be in the case of farmers, youth or any big decision of the state. For example, Uttar Pradesh needs to become an investment hub. Therefore I asked Amit Shah ji how to do this. He said create land banks and make policies. Pick-and-choose needs to be stopped because the previous government had done pick-and-choose and failed miserably. The result of this was that we made a policy, we made land banks, got the infrastructure in place and then called the investors. Till now, 40 per cent of the MoUs that we signed in the first investors' summit have been implemented on ground.I am sure there will be very few examples of investor summits being so successful on ground.In order to stop diseases such as encephalitis, Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan and other such schemes were introduced. It was a challenge for us. What was the challenge? The challenge was to create close to 2.60 crore toilets. People were afraid as to how this would happen, but I said it is an opportunity for us. Opportunity in the sense that we will be able to say to the country that we can. Secondly, this will help us be free from many diseases. The entire team came together and the job was done.RJ: Do you believe in casteism? The common perception is that Brahmins are also angry with you.YA: What can you do about perceptions? You can't mend mentalities of some people. Some have the wrong mindset and there is not much you can do about it. Our chief secretary is a Brahmin. The officer next in line is also a Brahmin. The chief of revenue department who is on the same level as that of chief secretary is also Brahmin. Additional chief secretary of the state's Home Ministry is also a Brahmin. But we have not kept anybody on the basis of them being Brahmin. Our DGP is Kshatriya. But we have not kept anybody on the basis of being Brahmin or Kshatriya. We have kept them based on their ability.Secondly, these allegations have not been levelled against me for the first time. When I fought Lok Sabha elections for the first time, even then such allegations were levelled against me. Once opposing parties made this the very basis of their election campaign and fought against me, all of their deposits were gone.Within Uttar Pradesh, most number of Brahmin children stay in Goraksh Peeth and their education and livelihood is taken care of. So, such allegations keep coming. This is real politics. If such allegations are not levelled, then you are not in politics at all.RJ: Akshay Kumar had asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi if he enjoys having mangoes. I will not ask such a question, but I'd like to ask, what is your favourite dish?YA: I like plain, satvik food. Whatever I get. I never demand any type of food. I take whatever I get according to a fixed time. But I don't like or dislike anything.RJ: Everyone gets a salary at the end of the month. What do you do with your salary?YA: Most of my money is spent in helping others. But I don't make a show about it, neither should one. There are many who are in need of money. You must have seen that a lot of people come during Janta Darshan, some need fees, some need money for medical needs. If we cannot provide to them from the prism of governance, we can always do it in our personal capacity. I help them in my personal capacity.RJ: You spent so much time with us. You gave us two days. Thanks a lot.Get the best of News18 delivered to your inbox - subscribe to News18 Daybreak. Follow News18.com on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, Telegram, TikTok and on YouTube, and stay in the know with what's happening in the world around you  in real time.

The party and government will commemorate the completion of one year of its government as Jan Kalyan Parv celebrations.BJP would launch a campaign on May 25 to reach out to the poor as part of its celebrations on completing one year in power at the Centre.Jan Kalyan Parv  a multi-prong campaign to help create a pro-poor image of the NDA government  would be launched after PM Narendra Modis rally at Nagla Chandrabhan village in Mathura, the birthplace of Deendayal Upadhyaya. The campaign to reach out to the poor comes in the backdrop of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi terming the NDA government a suit-boot ki sarkar.In his first address to party MPs after BJPs victory in the Lok Sabha elections on May 20, the PM had declared that his would be a government for the poor. We always stood by the antyodaya motto of Deendayal Upadhyay. The BJP will observe a Jan Kalyan Varsh throughout next year, BJP national secretary Shrikant Sharma said.The PMs rally would be the first in a series of public rallies being organised by the party across country from May 26 to May 31. These rallies would addressed by Union ministers, BJPs national office-bearers, chief ministers, MPs and MLAs.The campaign would highlight the governments pro-poor schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (an insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh for less than Re 1 per day), Atal Pension Yojana (a fixed pension of Rs 1,000, Rs 2,000, Rs 3,000, Rs 4,000 or Rs 5,000 per month) and Jan Dhan Yojana, and also Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. The controverisal land acquisition (amendment) bill is unlikely to find a mention.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App

Governor P. Sathasivam has greeted the people of Kerala on the occasion of the countrys 69{+t}{+h}Independence Day. In a message here on Thursday, Mr. Sathasivam lauded the State governments initiatives to expand the umbrella of social safety net through programmes such as the Chief Ministers mass contact programme, Karunya, and Snehapoorvam. He also cited the Mangalyan mission of ISRO and launch of social security schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, and Atal Pension Yojana by the Central government as key developments during the year.

The NDA governments plan to push through crucial labour reforms legislations in the budget session of Parliament is likely to hit a roadblock with daggers drawn between the ruling alliance and opposition parties over the suicide of a Dalit scholar.With the ambitious land reforms and GST bills also struck in Parliament due to continued stonewalling by the Congress-led opposition, the fresh crisis could seriously dent the NDA governments efforts to cut red tape and introduce more industry-friendly rules for ease of doing business.Union labour minister Bandaru Dattatreya is at the centre of the storm with opposition parties demanding his sacking for his alleged interference in the University of Hyderabad affairs, which they say drove Rohith Vemalu to suicide.Some of the proposed legislations the BJP is hopeful of passing in the budget session include the small factories bill, code on industrial relations and child labour (prohibition and regulation) amendment bill, 2012.While the small factories bill proposes to keep units employing less than 40 workers out of the purview of 14 labour laws, including the Employees Provident Fund Act, the Employees State Insurance Act and the Industrial Dispute Act, the code on industrial relations will make it easier for companies to sack up to 300 employees without the governments permission.The child labour bill, on the other hand, proposes that children below fourteen years may only be allowed to work in enterprises owned by their own families.These initiatives are, however, unlikely to see light of the day in the budget session in the face of opposition fire.Congress leaders have already said that the party will not let up the pressure until Dattatreya is sacked over the suicide by the 26-year-old research scholar.With the government mounting a fierce defence of Dattatreya, it was unlikely that the axe will fall on Dattatreya on this issue.And this stalemate could prove fatal for the governments ambitious Make in India programme, the foundations of which is expected to be built on the successful passage of the labour reforms bills.The small factories bill aims to free the small scale manufacturing sector from the cumbersome provisions of different labour laws, seen as major step towards easing the way of doing business.It will also obviate the need for small units to keep cumbersome records and submit to the regulators by allowing for online registration.Similarly, the code on industrial relations, which seeks to combine three laws into a single code, will enable companies to fire its staff without any official sanction if their staff strength is up to 300 and will also make it slightly tougher to form workers unions.

New Delhi, Aug. 29: Smriti Irani wants school and college teachers to promote the government's newly launched insurance schemes. The Union HRD minister has written to all chief ministers urging them to ask teachers to enrol themselves and people around them in schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Pradhan Mantri Jivan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and the Atal Pension Yojana (APY). "The Teachers' Day could be a great occasion to involve our esteemed teachers in enrolling not only themselves but also their family members and the members of the communities around them under these social security schemes," the letter said. A pamphlet in which the minister has directly appealed to teachers to get involved in the schemes is attached to the letter. "You are part of a community that commands immense respect in society. You sow the seed of India's bright future and mould generations to become good citizens. Thus I seek your support and participation in reaching out to people around you about these social security schemes and explain the benefits that come with the schemes," the pamphlet said. The PMSBY, with a premium of Rs 12 a year, provides for insurance coverage of Rs 2 lakh for individuals on death or disability. The PMJJBY gives life insurance coverage of Rs 2 lakh on a premium of Rs 330 per year. Under APY, a beneficiary has to make a monthly contribution for at least 20 years to be eligible for commensurate pension at the age of 60. "I urge you to begin with your immediate family and neighbourhood. Please inspire the youth and community members to show the way forward as far as enrolment is concerned," the pamphlet said. Teachers' associations have disapproved the government's move on the ground that it would interfere with daily work. Surajita Nayak, the vice-president of the Odisha Secondary School Teachers' Association, said teachers in Odisha and other states were already involved in government work like census, updating electoral rolls and socio-economic surveys, as well as the mid-day meal scheme. "The government's expectation that teachers will be involved in implementation of insurance schemes is unacceptable. If teachers are forced to do such work, teaching activities will be affected in schools," she said. Asok Barman, the general secretary of the All India Federation of University and College Teachers' Organisations, said: "The schemes are good and should be implemented. But why are teachers being asked to do all this work?"

SyndicateBank on Thursday launched a Yakshagana CD to educate people on various schemes of the Union government.The schemes covered included financial inclusion, Prime Ministers Jan Dhan Yojana, Prime Ministers Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana, Prime Ministers Suraksha Bima Yojana, Prime Ministers MUDRA Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.The CD was launched in Kannada and soon it will be translated into Hindi, all regional languages and into English so as to educate the common people of entire India, a release from the bank said. Yakshagana scholar M. Prabhakara Joshy released the CD.

COIR ART:A replica of the Mona Lisa in coir is the centre of attraction at the Coir Kerala 2013, in Alappuzha. PHOTO: BY SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTUnion Minister of State for Labour Kodikkunnil Suresh said the Centre was planning to extend a number of welfare schemes including Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY), Employees State Insurance (ESI) and Employees Provident Fund (EPF) to coir workers.The Minister was inaugurating a national seminar organised here as part of Coir Kerala 2013, an international event on coir and natural fibre products, on Monday. The Skill Development Initiative, a programme designed to increase employability of individuals by providing them vocational training and to certify existing skills that will help them find jobs, will be also extended to coir workers. Urging the coir agencies to take the lead in forming projects with investment in skill upgrading, new technology and product development in coir, he said that the country stands to gain the ground that Chinese products are losing worldwide through such initiatives. He also mooted the idea of coir parks on the parallels of rubber parks to buy technology, make products and find export markets for them.He asked the State Government to take advantage of schemes like Assistance to States for Infrastructure Development and Exports (ASDE) for setting up coir parks.He also asked the State Government to set up a Coir and Natural Fibre Design Institute on the lines of National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) and Footwear Design and Development Institute (FDDI) to focus on research and design aspects.Delivering the key note address, Planning Board member, G. Vijayaraghavan proposed an idea of an innovation zone for coir sector like a start up village for technology. Coir Minister Adoor Prakash, Coir Development Director K. Madanan and National Coir Research and Management Institute (NCRMI) director K.R. Anil also spoke.C.P. John, member, Planning Board, said that was not shortage of funds but lack of new projects that stalled modernisation in the coir industry. He was inaugurating a second session of national seminar here on Monday. Coir Kerala 2013 will conlcude on February 6.

Protesting against new government schemes which will adversely affect more than 15 lakh employees of the Life Insurance Corporation of India, the All India Life Insurance Agents Federation (AILIAF) will hold a series of strikes, including a march to the Raj Bhavan, on January 22.Minimum quotaDivisional and district unit members of the AILIAF, at a press meet here on Monday, said the demands of the agents included approval of agents as permanent employees of the LIC, welfare fund, Employees Provident Fund, Employees State Insurance and withdrawal of the hiked minimum business quota for the agents.A business bandh would be observed by the federation on February 8 which had also decided to participate in the national level trade union strike on February 21 and 22.A district conference of AILIAF will be held here on January 16.

With the norms of Employees State Insurance (ESI) and Employees Provident Fund (EPF) set to change amid furor by labour organisations, small industrial units on which, heavy penalties were imposed earlier for minor discrepancies, have heaved a sigh of relief.The Labour Laws Amendment Bill (exemption from furnishing returns and maintaining registers by certain establishments, 2011, was passed in Lok Sabha on November 28 after which the ball has been set rolling for changes in labour laws for small industrial units. The bill is yet to be passed in Rajya Sabha.With the amendments, a unit or a company employing at least 40 workers would be called a small establishment and the amendments would take place for these units. Earlier, a small establishment was considered to be the one having 10-19 employees.In Ludhiana, there are thousands of small units employing less than 40 employees that have to furnish details as well as deposit ESI and EPF. As per the industry, it was difficult for many small industrial units to deposit this sum of money due to fewer turnovers.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had stated that it was necessary to change labour laws that have become very old and there was a need to make new laws.As per the amendments the limit of labourers in an industrial unit for ESI would be increased from 10 (present) to 40 workers. On the other hand the limit for EPF would be increased from 20 (present) to 40 workers.Federation of Associations of Small Industries of India (FASII) president Badish Jindal said paper work of a small establishment would also decrease drastically after the amendments.Jindal said, "At present even a small industrial unit has to do thorough paper work that could be inspected anytime by the officials of industry department. However, now the records would not be required for a small establishment."According to the amendments, even inspectors of industry department could not directly go and inspect a unit, but have to take prior permission from the higher ups before any inspection at a small establishment.

Labour minister Bandaru Dattatreya on Monday said that 40 crore workers from unorganised sector will be covered under social security schemes such as Employees State Insurance and Employees Provident Fund.The government is committed to ensure wage, jobs and social security for all workers including unorganised sector, Dattatreya said addressing a function on the 3 years achievements of the his ministry here as per a Labour Ministry statement.He said that the ministry is implementing reforms and new ways and means for employment generation. India is the only country which has launched Shram Suvidha Portal for effective compliance and ease of doing business.The ministry is implementing the National Career Service (NCS) project as a vibrant platform for transforming and strengthening the public employment services in the country.The minister said that the ministry is working on the proposed codification of existing Labour Laws into 4 Labour Codes--Wages, Industrial Relations, Social Security and Welfare and Occupational Safety & Working Conditions.He said that the Group of Ministers have approved the Labour Code on Wages and it will be sent to cabinet for approval.The minister informed that ESIC is now covering complete districts instead of targeted industrial clusters. Coverage expanded to all 393 districts where these clusters are located. As many as 301 districts have been fully covered.In the second phase, he said that the target is to cover all the remaining districts of the country.One IP-Two Dispensaries scheme has been launched for the benefit of migrant workers. Now insured persons can choose two dispensaries, one for self and another for family through an employer, he added.He said that over 3.87 crore candidates, 14.8 lakh establishments are registered on the National Career Service (NCS) Portal and it has mobilised over 6 lakh vacancies.Around 540 job fairs were organised in 2016-17. The NCS project also involves setting up of 100 Model Career Centre to deliver quality employment services and these centres are being set up in collaboration with States and Institutions.The NCS has partnered with Department of Posts and common services centre to extend registration of job seekers through the Post Offices.On this occasion, Dattatreya inaugurated Centre of Excellence (Ophthalmology) of ESI PGIMSR & Model Hospital and Physiotherapy & X-ray units of ESIC on PPP model for beneficiaries for Delhi region.He also inaugurated EPFO Regional Office, Delhi (West) and Regional Office, Delhi (Central).

A restaurant in Madurai. Photo by K Antony XavierA restaurant in Chennai on Monday. Photo by A PrathapCHENNAI/MADURAI: After nearly two and a half months break, restaurants in Tamil Nadu , including some in Chennai, reopened their dine-in services on Monday. However, several eateries continued to offer takeaway only on Monday.Last week, the state government permitted dine-in facility for restaurants with 50% occupancy starting June 8. As per the guidelines, all restaurants, except those in containment zones, could begin din-in service by following social distancing and without using airconditioners.In Madurai, hoteliers saw brisk business. All hotels in Madurai district followed rules laid by government and ensured that their customers underwent thermal screening, disinfected the premises once in three hours, suppliers wore masks, gloves, caps and social distancing was practised.S Ilamaran, a resident of K K Nagar, said, We felt safe to have food in hotels. All precautionary measures were followed. Though many of us have been taking parcels home from restaurants during the lockdown, dine-in is a totally different experience. We enjoyed it after a long time.Since restaurants are allowed to function till 8pm, only 60% of the hotels opened up dine-in services. Hoteliers claimed that they were uncertain of the business with the timing restricted to 8pm.They opined that Madurai has a culture of eating out late at night. Many of them have urged state government to allow hotels to function till 10pm.Restaurants that offer take away services too are facing a loss as patrolling police force them to down the shutters by 7.30pm. Many eatery owners said they dump the unsold food.Arun Lal, owner of Express Biryani in Madurai, said he did not open his restaurant for dine-in on Monday. However, he plans to open it on Tuesday.The government should allow hotels to function till 10pm. We have to carry out extensive cleaning as we are closed for nearly three months. Our prime season was April and May, now that we made no business during the season, it will be tough for us to make profits without governments support, he said.K L Kumar, president of Madurai District Hoteliers Association, said though the hotels have opened up for dine-in, many of them have revamped their menu and reduced the dishes fearing they would not sell. Only 20% of the restaurants in the city offered all the dishes on their usual menu.Kumar urged the Centre to support the hotel industry and demanded tax exemption till the end of 2020. Further, the government should contribute towards the Employees Provident Fund and the Employees State Insurance for hotel staff, he added.

The country will soon have a new jobs data, which is expected to help policymakers get a better sense of the employment scenario in the country .To begin with, there will be a household-based survey that will produce the annual nation wide employment and unemployment estimates. There will also be a quarterly survey on urban employment and unemployment estimates and work is currently underway at the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO), NITI Aayog vice-chairman Arvind Panagariya told a news conference on Friday.The government had set up atask force headed by Panagariya to assess the creation of jobs based on credible data. Policymakers have often complained about the lack of a comprehensive and timely jobs data, which makes it difficult to assess the extent of job creation or unemployment. Some data is collected and published by agencies such as the Labour Bureau, but the coverage is seen as inadequate.The NITI Aayog vice-chairman said the survey will also rely on data from the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), Employees State Insurance (ESI) and the National Pension System (NPS) and other agencies.Panagariya said the current set of data has serious flaws. "In my sense, the debate on jobs has happened in vacuum in the sense that some data are being referred to and these are coming from the quarterly employment scenario reports the Labour Bureau does. There are very serious problems with these surveys.The findings of the labour survey can't be extrapolated to say that jobs haven't been created in the economy as the data is inadequate. Right now we don't have an actual survey from where we can gather the numbers. Some information can be extracted from the EPFO, ESI data. We are working on that now ." Panagariya said there was a need to create an ecosystem where labour-intensive industries can flourish.

Special camps will be held from December 19 to 24 to assist organised and unorganised sector workers and migrant labourers to open bank accounts, as per the directions of the Haryana government.A nodal officer will be deputed from each bank to work at the camps in a particular area.The camps will be held in association with the Labour Department, Employees State Insurance Corporation and Employees Provident Fund Organisation.The Labour Department has been entrusted with holding camps in Manesar Industrial Area, Udyog Vihars, Sector 37 Industrial Area, Daulatabad Industrial Area, Laxman Vihar Industrial Area and all other industrial pockets. Lead District Manager R. C. Nayak will be the overall co-ordinators of all banks.Establishments having a large number of organised and unorganised workers without bank accounts have been told to contact their official bankers with the list of workers and their nodal officers from the Human Resource department.Migrant labourersThe camps for migrant labourers will be held at Bhuteshwar Mandir Chowk, Sector 4-5 Chowk, Sikanderpur-Bristol Chowk and at Sector 22-23 Labour Chowk where migrant labourers assemble for their daily work.Two nodal officers from the Labour Department will provide the logistic support at the spot to the bankers.Accounts will be opened under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana for those not having a Permanent Account Number or supporting documents to open a regular savings accounts.Jan Dhan accountsEmployers have also been requested to furnish a letter stating the name of the workers employed in their establishment, their permanent and local address and certifying the photograph and signature of the labourer, which will be helpful in opening the Jan Dhan accounts.The accounts are being opened on a war-footing to ensure that salaries of workers can be credited to their accounts from December onwards.

Postmaster general Anil Kumar at the news meet on Monday. (Prashant Mitra)The Jharkhand postal circle started offering the central government's flagship insurance schemes from Monday, four months after they were launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.At a news meet at his Ranchi office in the afternoon, postmaster general Anil Kumar said that the ambitious Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Jojana (PMJJBY) and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) were being introduced at post offices with immediate effect.To start with, the schemes will be on offer at 17 post offices across the state."While these two schemes are being introduced immediately, Atal Pension Yojana will be delayed by around three weeks as the required software is yet to arrive," he said.Donning the role of a payment bank, the postal department will offer these two insurance schemes at Ranchi GPO, all the head post offices of the state and also at such post offices that are equipped with core banking solutions, the postmaster general said."The schemes have been introduced today (Monday) and specific counters will start functioning from Tuesday. Twenty-six more post offices will start offering the same by the end of this month," Kumar said.Anyone having an existent account at the post offices can opt for these schemes by filling up a form. Others have to open accounts. "We will have around 10,000 people opting for these schemes by tomorrow (Tuesday). The number is expected to touch the 10-lakh mark by the end of this financial year," Kumar said.

Sanitary workers on contract petitioned the Vellore Corporation seeking prompt disbursement of salary every month, on Thursday. Photo: C. VenkatachalapathySanitary workers on contract have submitted a petition to officials of the Vellore Corporation seeking timely disbursal of salary every month. There are close to 1,000 sanitary workers engaged on contract basis in the Corporation.Submitting a petition on behalf of the workers, J. Thulasiraman, Vellore city president of All India Scheduled Caste, Yuvajan Samaj, said as per labour laws, salary should be disbursed to workers on the 5th of every month.Instead, the workers are being paid on the 27th of every month for nearly three years. We have submitted many petitions urging the Corporation for early disbursal of salary but nothing has been done till now, he added.He added that a wage of Rs. 271 per day has been fixed for the unskilled labourers.There were four contractors for the four zones of the Corporation, and an additional contractor for engaging labourers in mosquito control measures. Nearly 75 per cent of the sanitary workers were women. The contract labourers have been working for the last three to eight years, he added.While an amount was deducted from their salaries as contribution towards Employees Provident Fund, the workers were not given the remittance slips. The PF contribution slips should be given to the workers once in six months but they have not received details of the remittances so far, he added.The workers have been complaining that the contractors were not providing details of their PF accounts, including the numbers.Similarly, photographs of workers and their family members were yet to be captured for coverage under the Employees State Insurance scheme, he said.

MANGALURU: Banks in Dakshina Kannada under the aegis of Syndicate Bank , the lead bank for the district, will conduct a workshop for beneficiaries of the union government's pet scheme - Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana and Start up and Stand Up (India)- at Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management at Adyar on Thursday.Union minister for human resources development Prakash Javadekar will inaugurate the workshop, DK MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said.The workshop organized to mark the completion of three years of the NDA government at the Centre, will showcase success of the PM Mudra Yojana, Nalin said. "The 44 banks in the district have given Rs 702.71 crore as loan to 50,706 beneficiaries under the yojana including Rs 93.73 crore under Mudra Shishu, Rs 402.97 crore under Mudra Kishore and Rs 206.01 under Mudra Tarun," he said, adding these loans are guaranteed by the Union government.The banks likewise have opened 3,68,562 accounts under Jan Dhan scheme and issued Rupay cards to 2,77,401 people, he said, adding 2,25,980 of these new accounts are active. Under Start Up/Stand Up (India), banks have cleared 80 proposals worth Rs 15.54 crore, the MP said. Banks have also insured 1,23,506 account holders under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana and honoured 218 claims amounting to Rs 4.36 crore, Nalin added.Banks have also insured 3,46,220 account holders under PM Suraksha Bima Yojana and settled 111 claims worth Rs 2.20 crore. Under the Atal Pension Yojana, banks roped in 11,496 account holders, he said. Under the PM Udyog Shrusthi Yojana, a total of 225 beneficiaries were identified in 2013-14 and given a margin money of Rs 7.95 crore, 216 beneficiaries in 2014-15 with margin money of Rs 8.39 crore and 228 beneficiaries in 2015-16 with margin money of Rs 8.95 crore.The purpose of the workshop is to spread the message of these various schemes of the Central government aimed at social security, job creation and spurring entrepreneurship, he said.Arjun Ram Meghwal, Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs, will hand over sanction letters of these schemes to the beneficiaries on this occasion. Similar information dissemination camps and workshops will be held across the district in a phased manner, he noted.

The Centres pension scheme for small traders, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned in his Independence Day speech on Thursday as one of the promises met by his government since its re-election in May, is yet to start, according to Union Labour and Employment Ministry officials.The Pradhan Mantri Laghy Vyapari Mann-Dhan scheme was among the promises of the BJP for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and was among the proposals cleared in the first Cabinet meeting after Mr. Modis re-election. On July 22, the scheme was notified by the Labour Ministry, making it applicable from that date. A checklist for the scheme on the Ministrys site shows that commencement of the scheme and launch of the scheme are yet to take place.According to Ministry officials, the online application portal for beneficiaries was supposed to start soon after the notification, while the official launch could have been done by the Prime Minister on Independence Day. However, officials now say that Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar is likely to launch the scheme soon.Traders who have an annual turnover of less than 1.5 crore and are between 18 and 40 years of age would be eligible for the scheme. Those applying for the scheme cannot be covered under the National Pension Scheme, the Employees State Insurance Scheme and the Employees Provident Fund nor be Income Tax assessees.The beneficiary will have to contribute a monthly amount, which will be matched by the government. After they turn 60, the schemes subscribers would get 3,000 as monthly pension.

PM to launch national career services portal next monthMumbai, Aug 6, 2015, (PTI) 21:25 ISTHaving already launched National Career Services (NCS) portal for the unemployed youth to get their names registered, the government will now launch smart cards for unorganised workforce in the country, next month."Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already launched the NCS portal. It is part of the modernisation of the employment exchanges. So far 4.5 crore unemployed youth have registered with employment exchanges. With the portal going online, they need not go to the exchanges to register their names but can be done online," Union Labour Minister Bandaru Dattatreya told reporters here today."Around 40 top companies have joined the portal through which they can provide direct recruitment through the information available on the portal," he said."We will provide a smart card, known as U-Win, to 35 lakh people. The scheme will be launched by the Prime Minister in the first week of September. We have asked all the states to register their unemployed workforce for the scheme," he said, adding, "we are developing 100 model centres for this in the first phase itself."The minister said unorganised workforce constitutes 93 per cent of the total workforce in the country and for them the government has already launched a host of schemes like Rashtriya Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.Talking about the other plans his ministry is working on currently for the unorganised sector, he said we need to skill 30-35 crore workforce as the present skilled labour is merely at 1.9 per cent and hence the Prime Minister has launched the Skill India initiative. My job at the labour ministry is to train the workforce.Coming on construction workers, he said "for the construction sector workers, we have got a training programme under which we provide work-site training at the work site and we will also provide a certificate to them at the site itself so that they should earn more in future and get more jobs."Union labour secretary Shankar Aggarwal made it clear that as of now there is no plan to bring Employment Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) under the purview of the pension funds regulator Pension Funds Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA).He also informed that the ministry is working on reducing the currently existing 44 labour laws to four so as to facilitate the entrepreneurs set up an industry.EPFO is planning to provide housing to its members."We have already received a committee report on providing housing to EPFO members and we are gearing up to launch the scheme," Central provident fund commissioner KK Jalan said.

Madras Chamber of Commerce & Industry (MCCI) organised a management development programme on Provident Fund (PF) and Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) here on Wednesday.Speaking on the occasion, S. Sankaranarayanan, deputy secretary of the MCCI, said aspects of the latest economic developments should be included in labour laws.K. Varadhan, chief operating officer of Aparajitha Corporate Services, said labour legislations should be simplified and upgraded in tune with the current scenario. The laws, though enacted in 1952, are still considered as important social legislations. Several procedures such as online submission of returns have been simplified, he added.However, the labour legislations were yet to be simplified in view of the recent economic reforms, Mr. Varadhan noted.The ratio of contract workers has increased in the country because of the volatility in business scenario and the demand for flexible workforce, he pointed out.V. Shyam Sundar, Regional PF Commissioner, said the responsibility of companies towards their employees continued even after they stopped working. Social security means from womb to tomb. Industry and commerce cannot go alone. The government, through its social security measures, protects the welfare of the employees and boosts the countrys image in the international market, he said.The participation of employee groups is essential for the government to implement the legislations properly. The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) ensures that the employers dont use labourers and leave them in the lurch after extracting work from them, he added.Several procedures such as online submission of returns have been simplified

GENERALPradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana: Union Minister for Environment and Forest to launch the schemes of Ernakulam centre; TDM Hall; 5.30 p.m.Kerala Region Latin Catholic Council: Archbishop Francis Kallarakkal to inaugurate a seminar on reservation; Ashir Bhavan; Kacheripady; 10 a.m.Royal College of Physicians: Internal Medicine Conference; Hotel Crowne Plaza, 9.30 a.mKerala Economic Association and KINFRA: National seminar on Keralas Development in Retrospect and Prospect; Sacred Heart College; Thevara; 9 a.m.Association of British Scholars, British Council, Institute of Small Enterprises and Development: Talks on social enterprises by Helen Vines; IMA House, 4.30 p.m.Santhwana Institute of Counselling and Psychotherapy: Workshop for students; Swanthana Institute of Counselling and Psychotherapy; Kacheripady; 9 a.m.

Seeking relief:Small units should be exempt from the code, considering their finances, says the MSME Association.The Labour Ministry may implement its proposed social security law in a phased manner, exempting small factories employing up to 10 workers, from its ambit initially.We are contemplating implementing the proposed law on social security in a phased manner, said a senior Labour Ministry official, on the condition of anonymity.The small factories could be covered in the second phase. Factories employing more than 10 workers and informal sector workers can be covered in the first phase.After two years, factories employing less than 10 workers can also be brought under the framework of the proposed social security law, the official added.The Labour Ministry had, in March, proposed a labour code on social security which will provide social security cover to the entire workforce in the country, including self-employed and agricultural workers. Factories with even a single worker would have had to contribute towards social security benefits, as per the code.Key demandThis was the first time that the Central government had proposed a law for providing universal social security to all workers which have been one of the key demands of the central trade unions.However, small and medium enterprises, which are kept out of social security schemes at present, had raised concerns over the governments proposal.The small-scale industrial undertakings should be kept out of the ambit of social security framework as the financial implication of such a move would be huge, said Avinash K. Dalal, national president and founder of the All India MSME Association.The provident fund and pension contribution, administered by the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), is mandatory only for factories employing at least 20 workers at present. Further, medical benefits under the Employees State Insurance Act apply to factories with at least 10 workers and it is also applicable to shops, hotels, restaurants, cinemas and road transport undertakings.We have received favourable reactions (on the proposed law), except probably (from) the small entrepreneurs who feel that they may have to bear a little bit of financial burden due to contribution (towards social security schemes), Labour Secretary M. Sathiyavathy had said during a consultative meeting on the draft social security code, organised by the Labour Ministry last month.According to the Sixth Economic Census, 98.62% of the total establishments in India  both agricultural and non-agricultural sectors  employ less than 10 workers.Providing social security to all workers will be one of the key themes of the 47th Indian Labour Conference (ILC) which is likely to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi later this year.

The Department of Posts will look at enrolling more number of workers in the unorganised sectors in the region under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana.Sharda Sampath, Postmaster General, Western Region, told The Hindu here on Thursday that the department would focus on three schemes for the next few months  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (accident cover), Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (life insurance), and the Atal Pension Yojana.For the accident insurance, which provides Rs. 2 lakh cover at an annual premium of Rs. 12, the department is looking at autorickshaw drivers, State transport department drivers and conductors, travel agencies, It is already in discussion with some of them. We want to target the high risk category, she said. Postal department staff would also organise melas to enrol people in these schemes.Coimbatore region has a large number of migrant workers in industries such as construction. They can be covered by the respective organisations under the accident insurance scheme.In the case of life insurance, for which the sum insured is Rs. 2 lakh and the annual premium is Rs. 330, the department will look at workers in the unorganised sectors. The premium is very low for these schemes and given the department is confident of achieving the target in the region.These are schemes that benefit the public. Hence, my focus will be on these, Ms. Sampath said.

New Delhi: Feb 28, 2015, DHNS: 23:55 ISTNow onwards, the subscribers of the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) may choose from two of the options: the EPF and the New Pension Scheme (NPS).The employees having income below a level, may also opt for not depositing his part of the PF contribution. The employees will also have the choice of opting the Employees State Insurance (ESI) or a Health Insurance Product.Finance minister Arun Jaitley announced that with respect to the EPF, the employee needs to be provided two options. Firstly, the employee may opt for the EPF or the NPS. Secondly, for employees below a certain threshold of monthly income, contribution to the EPF should be optional, without affecting or reducing the employers contribution.He said, with respect to the ESI, the employee should have the option of choosing either the ESI or a Health Insurance product, recognised by the Insurance Regulatory Development Authority.The Finance minister announced that he intends to bring amending legislation in this regard, after stakeholders consultation.The Labour Ministry is ready with the proposed changes in the Employees Provident Fund Organization Act and they are likely to be tabled in Parliament in the budget session.However, the amendments are being revisited by the trade unions.

Workers hired through multiple contractors by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) here have alleged that companies have been denying them their minimum wages and have allotted fake Provident Fund and health insurance accounts to siphon off their money.Questioned about this, officials said that while they were aware of the workers complaints, they had not yet blacklisted any company, despite the fact that the Delhi Metro paid a share of the workers PF, which runs into crores, as part of contractors bills.The DMRC employs over 4,900 workers through more than 19 contractors to work as ticket-vending operators, security guards and housekeepers who clean and sweep metro stations.Rajni Saxena (40) worked as a ticket vendor at Akshardham metro station till January, and was diagnosed with pyelonephritis, an infection in her kidneys, last year. She has regularly corresponded with 11 public offices. Among those she petitioned were President Pranab Mukherjee, the Union Labour Ministry, DMRC, and Employees Provident Fund (EPF) Office during weeks ofhospitalisation last year and even after undergoing a kidney surgery three weeks back.Since last December, she has fought the case at the Regional Labour Commissioners office against her former employer Bedi & Bedi Associates for allotting fake PF and health insurance accounts. The Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police Crime Branch is now investigating the complaint of Rajni and 58 of her colleagues. We would work all 30 days without weekly offs but be paid for 15-20 days. On paper our wage was Rs. 8100 but they would pay only Rs. 4500  that, too, after three-four months delay, said the mother of three at her Preet Vihar residence as she recuperated from the surgery.Rajni was allotted an Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) card which entitled her to free treatment at ESIC hospitals. But when she was referred for speciality treatment for her kidney at the ESIC hospital at Jhilmil, she found there were no funds in her account. Inquiries at the ESIC office at Kishanganj by Rajni and 24 of her colleagues showed that Bedi & Bedi had not contributed Rs. 25 lakh  including Rs. 6.8 lakh deducted from workers salary  to ESIC. Fourteen of the 25 workers had been allotted numbers which did not exist in government records.In December 2011, her employer agreed to provide her PF arrears in a meeting attended by DMRC DGM (Operations) Amit Jain at the Delhi Governments Mediation and Conciliation Centre. Two months later, the EPF office in Wazirpur responded that the PF account numbers shown by the company did not exist in government records.DMRC officials know what is going on. But this January when Bedi & Bedis contract to provide ticket operators ended, DMRC awarded it a second contract to provide security guards, alleged Rajni. Also, the company had a contract to provide 800 ticket operators but it hired and gave login IDs to over 3,400 employees after charging Rs. 80,000 to Rs. 1 lakh from each applicant. Why did DMRC officials not question why 2600 extra login IDs were provided? she demanded.DMRC officials defend their actions saying they allowed Bedi & Bedi a second contract because the company had made a prayer to the Delhi High Court that the investigation against it was still pending. They admitted that they had not been able to verify the genuineness of the PF accounts allotted by contractors. We have started paying 93 per cent of the workers through banks now and will soon introduce a biometric system for attendance, said DMRC GM (Civil) Surya Prakash.However, guards, sweepers, Acme Enterprises, A2Z Securities, and even workers hired by Prehari Security Services as guards outside the DMRC office in Connaught Place said they still do not have PF or ESIC accounts and contractors continue to pilfer over a fourth of their wages this way. Documents obtained through Right to Information (RTI) applications showed that Keshav Security Services, a company similar to Bedi & Bedi, and also the largest supplier of housekeepers to DMRC, allotted two different PF account numbers to workers in 2009 and 2010.Calculating PF contributions at the rate of the 24 per cent of Rs. 7254 per month, the minimum wage for unskilled workers, about Rs. 1.26 crore is siphoned off in a year from just 607 employees.The company keeps two accounts  one for DMRC records and a separate register where they keep our accounts. I have worked here for eight years since the Metro started, but never heard of anyone getting their PF funds, said a worker who took part in the strike at 11 stations on the Blue Line on October 13.(The reporter is a Media Fellow, National Foundation for India)

UP IN ARMS:Workers staging a demonstration in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Labour in Palayamkottai on Wednesday. Photo: A. SHAIKMOHIDEENCondemning lacklustre functioning of labour welfare boards, unorganised sector labourers and construction workers affiliated to Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) staged a demonstration in front of the Office of Deputy Commissioner of Labour near VOC Grounds, Palayamkottai, on Wednesday.They said Social Security Officers should be appointed in all welfare board offices.The members should not be compelled to the office concerned for registration and renewal of registration. Application for pensions should be cleared immediately and the government should give arrears for any delay in clearing applications.While increasing the pension to Rs. 3,000, the family pension should be fixed at Rs. 1,000. The assistance being given for natural death of members and marriage of their children should be increased. Vacancies in welfare boards should be filled up without further delay. Identity cards should be distributed to the applicants without any delay.Medical allowances, medical facilities, assistance during monsoon, free house sites, subsidised housing loans, employees provident fund, employees state insurance scheme etc., should be extended to unorganised sector workers, they said.

Chairperson of the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority Yogesh Agarwal urged corporate entities on Monday to take advantage of tax benefits on contribution made by employees to the National Pension Scheme (NPS).Speaking at an interactive session with members of the Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce (BCIC), Mr. Agarwal pointed out that the employers contribution up to Rs. 10,000, on behalf of their employees, would be eligible for tax breaks.The NPS, which has been operational since 2004, Mr. Agarwal said, is different from the scheme offered earlier. It is a defined contribution pension, and not a defined pension benefit scheme as was the case earlier.Mr. Agarwal said the three States, which have not implemented the scheme  Kerala, West Bengal and Tripura  are also likely to join the other States in implementing the NPS for government employees. Kerala is likely to join soon, he remarked.The cost structure of the NPS is much lower than other alternative pension plans, Mr. Agarwal argued. Moreover, subscribers can choose their fund managers, he added.Kamma Narayana, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, said the Employees Provident Fund Organisation is implementing the second phase of its reforms, after successfully completing computerisation of its systems. A subscriber will have only one PF number, irrespective of where he is working. This will reduce the number of complaints about delayed settlements of those whose PF accounts have been transferred after they have moved over to another organisation, Mr. Narayana said.Rahimunnisa, Director, Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), said the organisation covers 21 lakh employees in the State, which, inclusive of employees families, implied a coverage of 1.05 crore people. The ESIC plays a significant role because it covers nearly 12 to 14 per cent of the people in Karnataka, Dr. Rahimunnisa said.

Hours after Congress president Sonia Gandhi attacked the government for its false promises on transparency, the Union Cabinet met on Wednesday evening to approve an amendment that would effectively dilute the scope of the Whistle Blowers Protection Act of 2011. The amendment incorporates necessary provisions to keep issues of national security out of its purview.Anti-corruption activists have argued that the new provisions could weaken the fight against corruption in key sectors like defence. In the past, several dubious deals like the Bofors, Scorpene, Tatra truck and AgustaWestland scams have been exposed by whistle blowers.Ms. Gandhi attacked the government in the Lok Sabha for not notifying the Bill despite it getting the Presidents assent last year. The Bill was passed by the Lok Sabha, in December 2011 and the Rajya Sabha had passed it on 21 February last year and it received the Presidents assent on May 9. During the last days of UPA rule, the BJP had proposed certain amendments to the Bill when it came up for consideration and passage in the Rajya Sabha. One was to bar whistleblowers from seeking information on national security.New schemesThe Union Cabinet also gave approval to three major social security initiatives that will be launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 9. The schemes  the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) , the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and the Atal Pension Yojana (APY) will be inaugurated in Kolkata where Assembly elections are due next year.

Atal Pension Yojana flop show, very few takersAnnapurna Singh, NEW DELHI, July 18, 2015, DHNS: 0:32 ISTLong lock-in period and little returns keep people awayThree months into its launch, the governments flagship pension programme, Atal Pension Yojana (APY) aimed at providing old age social security mainly to 90 per cent of Indias working population in the unorganised sector, has evoked little response.The reason could vary from lack of financial literacy among people to a too long lock-in period and low rate of return. The development has set the alarm bells ringing for the government as it is contemplating launching new variant of the scheme to expand its reach.Launched on May 9, the APY has only 4.69 lakh subscribers till date while two other insurance schemes brought out on the same day  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), an accident insurance scheme has attracted 7.84 crore people and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), a life insurance product 2.70 crore subscribers as of now.Under the APY, a subscriber gets a fixed monthly pension ranging from Rs 1,000 per month to Rs 5,000 per month depending on his contribution on attaining the age of 60. The contribution ranges from Rs 42 to Rs 1452 per month.Yet, the scheme which comes with a 50 per cent central subsidy has very little takers compared to other products of the government. According to countrys pension regulator, PFRDA, one reason for a slow take off could be that there is no clarity on the tax treatment of the scheme.Tax treatment of Atal Pension Scheme is not clearly known but we understand it will be at par with the existing National Pension Scheme (NPS), PFRDA whole time member B S Bhandari has said recently. Under the current rules, the NPS corpus is taxable at the time of withdrawal.The PFRDA is batting for an EEE (Exempt Exempt Exempt) for NPS too but at present, NPS is EET (Exempt Exempt Taxed). The tax component in NPS has not very well received by subscribers. All other competing products, including EPF, Public Provident Fund, are EEE not EET.Another reason for the pension schemes being less popular, according to market analysts, is that the rate of returns barely matches the inflation. A back-of-the-envelop calculation suggests that 35 years from now, the value of Rs 5000 will be equivalent to todays Rs 125.A long lock-in period has dissuaded subscribers from the schemes too.

Representative imageGURUGRAM: The state government has decided to link all industries or organisations employing contract workers as well as labour contractors with the Haryana Udhyam Memorandum (HUM) portal that will, for the first time, create a database of contractual workers employed in the state.Over the next six months, the government will first register all contractors and factories with more than 50 workers in the state, and then link them with the portal so that the database is created.The decision was announced after a meeting between deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and members of the contract labour advisory board in Gurugram on Thursday. The minister, who also holds the labour portfolio, said the move was aimed at protecting the rights of contractual workers in the state.Once all factories and contractual workers have been registered, they will be entitled to several government benefits such as ESI (employees state insurance) and EPF (employees provident fund), said Chautala.Currently, there are many industries in the state that are not registered under the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970. Though there are specific stipulations on minimum wages, those working in such factories or organisations often do not get paid on a par. They also dont have a platform to lodge complaints. Officials said once all organisations and factories are registered, it will allow the government to take action against anyone engaging in malpractice or exploiting workers on pay and ESI or EPF benefits.In a state where 70% of the workforce is contractual, a database that gives workers a redress forum is long overdue. After the lockdown, with many factories laying off permanent employees and hiring workers on contract, the need for a database became all the more important. When permanent workers are struggling for their rights as defined by the labour laws of this country, the condition of contractual workers is much worse. Even though the Factories Act guarantees minimum wages and provident fund for contractual workers, they barely get these benefits. And when they approach the government for help, it becomes difficult to make their case in the absence of any employment proof, said Shyamvir, a labour rights activist.In the whole of Haryana, there are only about 2,300 contractors and organisations registered under the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970.Government rules make it mandatory for any industry with more than 50 workers to get itself registered.The move comes at a crucial juncture  when work on multiple projects across the state is struggling to gain momentum for lack of available workforce. Though in desperate need of jobs, migrant labourers who have left the state in hordes during the lockdown are still to return in large numbers and join work. This move is being seen as an effort by the government to reach out to them and bring more of the labour force back.Chautala said all industries and contractors who are yet to register themselves would be asked to submit Aadhaar numbers and details of their workers with the labour department, which will have six months to complete the procedure. After the registration process, all these factories and contractors would be given an HUM number each.The labour department will first have to ensure that every organisation, every contractor is under its purview. After February 21, 2021, any factory or contractor who has still not registered would be penalised, Chautala said. At the meeting, discussions were also held on the employment of contractual workers in the rubber industry. Officials said the government had decided to seek suggestions from these industries before taking a decision on the labourers.

Residents enrolling under social security schemes in Salem. M. Mohana Perumal, Senior Divisional Manager, LIC, and P. Thangavel, Divisional Manager, Indian Bank, are in the picture.Photo: E. Lakshmi NarayananThe salient features of different social security schemes being announced by the Prime Minister recently were explained at a Town Hall meeting held in the city on Thursday.The meeting was brought up by LIC of India and the branches of all the banks in Salem Corporation limits.ObjectiveThe objective of the meeting was to re-energize the drive for enrolment under the social security schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jothi Yojana - PMJJBY (a Life Insurance Scheme with coverage of Rs. two lakhs at a nominal premium of Rs. 330 per annum); Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana  PMSBY (an accident insurance scheme with coverage of Rs. two lakhs at a nominal premium of Rs. 12 per annum); Atal Pension Yojana - APY (pension scheme upto Rs. 5,000 per month); Prime Minister Mudra Yojana - PMMY (scheme for financing micro units upto Rs.10 lakhs.M. Mohana Perumal, Senior Divisional Manager, LIC of India, explained in detail the purpose of this Town Hall meeting and explained the salient features of PMJJBY scheme to the participants.Lead bankP. Thangavel, Lead District Convenor and Zonal Manager, Indian Bank, spoke about the initiatives taken by lead bank and other banks in enrolling number of beneficiaries under the three social security schemes.He exhorted the general public who have gathered to avail the benefits under these schemes and get themselves enrolled. He requested all the bankers to cover the maximum number of beneficiaries under the schemes.J. Krishnamurthy, Manager, SIDBI, explained in detail about PMMY.Nagarajan from Crux Communications, spoke on APY and urged the general public to subscribe under the scheme.Ramachandran, Manager of United India Insurance Company, highlighted the high risk coverage with very low premium of Rs.12 under the PMSBY scheme. He exhorted all the participants to enroll themselves under the scheme.K. Anil, Senior Regional Manager, Indian Overseas Bank, R. Krishnasamy, Assistant General Manager, State Bank of India, Somasekaran, Chief Manager, Canara Bank and Bama Buvaneswari, AGM, NABARD spoke on the initiatives taken by banks and requested all the people to avail of the benefits under these schemes.StallsMany banks put up stalls and displayed the scheme details and explained the features to the general public. Enrolment under PMJJBY and PMSBY was carried out.

Union Labour and Employment Minister Bandaru Dattatreya launched two Jana Suraksha Vans to operate in the labour clusters of the twin cities to create awareness on health among organised and unorganised workers, here on Saturday.The JSVs were launched as part of a pilot project from the office of Employees State Insurance Corporation here and would soon be expanded across the country.Speaking to media persons after the launch, Mr. Dattatreya said the JSVs would serve the dual purpose of bringing awareness among organised and unorganised workers regarding the benefits of ESIC and creating health awareness related to occupational hazards and preventing the onset or worsening of lifestyle and work-related diseases through counselling and publicity.Target sectorsConstruction workers, textile mill workers, coal miners, and other workers in the unorganised sector would be targeted and the JSVs would visit the labour clusters after prior intimation. Each van would have a doctor, a nurse, paramedical staff and equipment, including publicity material. The data of health parameters of the workers would be recorded and fed into Central Analysis Wing. The new initiative is for providing health cards to all the unorganised sector workers as part of universal social security by 2019, he said.Mr. Dattatreya said as part of bringing unorganised sector workers under the ESIC, about 1,000 Hamalis, railway outsourced workers, would be provided with ESIC cards here on April 22.The Union Labour Minister also said amendments were brought to the Employees Provident Funds Employee Deposit Link Insurance Scheme to utilise accumulated corpus of over Rs. 18,000 crore till March, 2016. It has decided to give minimum assurance of Rs. 2.5 lakh on death of a member subject to one year contributory service. The maximum sum assured has been increased from Rs. 3.6 lakh to Rs. 6 lakh under the EDLI for those retiring from the service.Loyalty benefitsIt was also decided to extend loyalty benefits to members on retirement with minimum 20 years of contributory service in the range of Rs. 30,000, Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 50,000 based on average monthly wages of less than Rs. 5,000, more than Rs. 5,000 and more than Rs. 10,000 respectively. The EDLI would pay Rs. 692 crore under the above scheme to the members who retired during this financial year. The estimated payments as benefit on death is Rs. 432 crore and estimated payment towards minimum assurance benefit Rs. 386 crore, he said.

The Centre will launch U-WIN (Unorganised Worker Identification Number) card next month for workers in the unorganised sector to provide them with social security benefits, Union Labour Minister Bandaru Dattatreya said on Friday.In all, 45 crore workers who lacked health, housing, pension and other facilities enjoyed by the workers in the organised sector, would be covered.They would be offered Rashtriya Swasth Bima Yojana, Aam Admi Bima Yojana, old age pension," he said while inagurating a private iodised salt manufacturing unit at Chinnaganjam in Prakasam district.The beneficiaries would also be provided with Pradhan Mantri Jan Suraksha Yojana, Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana, the minister said.Initially, among other workers, construction workers, autorickshaw drivers, rickshaw-pullers and cine-workers would be covered, he said.U-WIN cards would be extended to Anganwadi workers, Mid-day meal workers and Asha workers subsequently, he added.

More than eight crore members of the Employees Provident Fund, can now opt to move their retirement savings to the National Pension System overseen by the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA)  over two years after Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had promised such an alternative for employees in the Budget for 2015-16.The PFRDA notified the procedure for EPF members to transfer their investments to the National Pension System or NPS on Tuesday.Terming members of EPF and Employees State Insurance Corporation (which provides medical care to organised sector workers) as hostages, rather than clients, the finance minister had said such workers incomes suffer due to high statutory deductions towards EPF and ESIC.He had promised to provide employees the option to leave the EPF and opt for the NPS and had also said that employees below a certain level of monthly income could decide if they wanted to stop their own contributions to the EPF. In all, 24% of an employees salary is diverted to the EPF as a mandatory retirement saving scheme.Active NPS accountAccording to the rules, the subscriber looking to transfer funds from EPF to NPS must have an active NPS Tier-I account, which can be opened either through the employer where NPS is implemented or online through eNPS on the NPS Trust website.The amount transferred from a recognised Provident Fund or superannuation fund to NPS would not be treated as income of the current year and hence, would not be taxable.Further, the transferred recognised Provident Fund/Superannuation Fund will not be treated as contribution of the current year by employee/employer and accordingly the subscriber would not make Income Tax claim of contribution for this transferred amount, the notification clarified.While the return on EPF savings this year is expected to be 8.65%, the NPS offers multiple asset allocation options and fund managers for its members to choose from, with varying rates of returns.The subscriber, either a government or private sector employee, must approach the concerned PF office where their money resides, through her or his employer and request to transfer their savings to an NPS account.

The unveiling of the mega pension scheme for workers in the informal sector marks a key milestone in the Modi governments plan to widen the social security net.The social security architecture had so far been skeletal. While the UPA government had unveiled a few schemes to provide some form of social security to a large section of the population, the NDA government's schemes have larger coverage and are better targeted, thanks to direct transfers enabled by Aadhaar and Jan Dhan accounts.The Modi government started off by rolling out the PM Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Surakasha Bima Yojana in 2015 and opening of Jan Dhan accounts. This was followed by a mega health insurance scheme, Ayushman Bharat in 2018, which aims to provide health insurance cover to 50 crore people. Government claims 10 lakh people have already benefited from it.The launch of the pension scheme for the nearly 10 crore informal sector workers will provide old age income security to those without it. Announced for rickshaw-pullers, ragpickers, agricultural workers, construction workers, beedi workers and others in similar occupations will be one of the largest pension programmes in the world in terms of beneficiaries.Officials said the government was laying the foundation of a much-needed edifice, which will boost flow of pension to workers and expand the ambit of the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) to cover new units. Minimum wage for workers has been raised by 42% and payout by EPFO if a worker dies has been increased to Rs 6 lakh from Rs 2.5 lakh. Wages of Anganwadi and Asha Yojana workers too have been raised by nearly 50%. Minimum pension for every worker has been fixed at Rs 1,000 per month.

ONLINE ASSISTANCE:A help desk on Coimbatore District Small Industries' Association premises helps entrepreneurs in e-filing of returns and online registrations.- PHOTO: S. SIVA SARAVANANHelp desks, training programmes have helped create awarenessDuring the last two years, a large number of industries in Coimbatore have gone in for online registration and payment of taxes and e-filing of returns.According to M. Kandhaswami, President of Coimbatore District Small Industries' Association, use of online facilities has increased as the filing and payments can be done from the office.Employees need not have to go to several offices to submit their returns or make payments.Every one feels comfortable with the online system and has adopted it readily. Even small-scale industries have at least one employee designated for accounts and online tasks.Registration certificateAn entrepreneur obtains the registration certificate (Part I and Part II) from the District Industries Centre to start an industry.If a unit has more than 20 workers, it should be registered with Inspectorate of Factories, Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESI), and Employees Provident Fund Organisation (PF). Depending on the annual turnover of the company, it should register with the Central Excise Department for Excise Duty or Service Tax assessment. Income Tax payment also varies depending on the turnover.MandatoryIndustries will have to register only through online mode to get registration certificate from District Industries' Centre and the Central Excise Department. Online filing of returns (e-filing) is mandatory for ESI, Central Excise, and Service Tax and the compliance is almost 100 per cent.Use of online system is high for Income Tax too, according to officials.In the case of PF, beneficiaries can see the claim status online.Help desks, training workshops and interaction with industries have helped improve awareness among the small and medium-scale enterprises, the officials say.Mr. Kandhaswami says all departments should introduce online payment systems and e-filing and should do away with manual submission of records.This will help industries to a great extent as they can save time and complete the work from their respective offices.

New Delhi, Nov 23, 2015, PTI 0:26 ISTThe review meeting has NPAs, rate cut on agendaFinance Minister Arun Jaitley will meet heads of PSU banks on Monday to discuss various issues, including bad loans and interest rate reduction, in light of RBI lowering its policy rate in September.The performance review meeting of public sector banks (PSBs) will also take stock of the credit flow to productive sectors to spur economy and review of Indradhanush, the seven-pronged strategy to revive PSBs, sources said.The government in August announced the programme, which includes Rs 70,000 crore capital infusion in PSBs in four years, starting with Rs 25,000 crore this fiscal, and measures to de-stress banks by introducing governance reforms.According to sources, the meeting is expected to review credit offtake by sectors such as home, education and corporate, as well as the progress made under the Jan Dhan Yojana and Prime Ministers social security schemes, among other issues.Interest rate reviewThe meeting will also examine the steps that have been taken by state-owned banks in the aftermath of Rs 6,100-crore Bank of Baroda black money remittance case to avoid such episodes in future. Jaitley is expected to review the interest rate cut by banks following reduction in the key policy rate by RBI in September.RBI, in its September bi-monthly monetary policy review, had cut interest rate by a higher-than-expected 0.5 per cent. The benchmark repurchase (repo) rate has subsequently come down from 7.25 per cent to 6.75 per cent, the lowest in four-and-a-half years.The progress of three social security schemes, namely Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY), and the Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency (MUDRA), among others, is also likely to feature in the discussions.According to an official statement, the major thrust areas of review would be priority sector lending, second quarter results, financial literacy, PMMY and insurance and pension schemes.Apart from these, Ministry of MSME will discuss issues related to MSME financing, while the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) will discuss status of commitment given by banks for funding renewable energy projects in the next five years, it said.

Union Minister for Law and Justice D.V. Sadananda Gowda during the inauguration of three social security schemes in Mangaluru on Saturday. Photo: H.S. ManjunathUnion Minister for Law and Justice D.V. Sadananda Gowda has said the three social security schemes of the Central government being launched on Saturday demonstrates that the government is for the poor and not pro-corporate as being propagated by many. He was speaking at the nation-wide launch of the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, the Atal Pension Yojana and the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana here.The programme in Mangaluru was organised by all the nationalised banks present in the district and insurance companies under the stewardship of Corporation Bank.Mr. Gowda said that after getting savings accounts opened, under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wanted to extend social security to all in the country. Thus the two insurance and one pension schemes were conceived. He recalled that many had criticised the government when the Jan Dhan Yojana was launched on August 15. However, they have been silenced due to the overwhelming success of the scheme.He said the schemes have to reach each and every individual in the country; hence the government has organised the programme simultaneously at 115 places, including Kolkata where Mr. Modi would be launching the schemes in the presence of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.Mr. Gowda said banks, which hitherto had been deemed only for the rich, would have to open their doors to the poor too. The government is keen on the economic empowerment of people and transparency in public life, he said.Speaking on the occasion, Lok Sabha member Nalin Kumar Kateel launched a veiled attack on various beneficiary schemes of the State government. He said that the Narendra Modi-government is not interested in feeding the poor but is keen on their economic empowerment. The government believes in Swami Vivekanandas words and is working towards economic empowerment of the poor, he said.MLC Ganesh Karnik, Deputy Commissioner A.B. Ibrahim, Zilla Panchayat CEO P.I. Sreevidya and senior officials from various banks were present. District in-charge Minister B. Ramanath Rai was conspicuous by his absence.PMSBY: A renewable one-year accidental death-cum-disability cover of Rs. 2 lakh to all savings bank holders in the age-group of 18-70 years for an annual premium of Rs. 12.PMJJB: A renewable one year life cover of Rs. 2 lakh to all savings bank account holders in the age group of 18-50 years covering death due to any reason for an annual premium of Rs. 330. If death happens due to accident including natural calamity for a person subscribing to both the schemes, the kin would get Rs. 4 lakh.APY: Minimum pension of Rs. 1,000, Rs. 2,000, Rs. 3,000, Rs. 4,000 or Rs. 5,000 per month starting at the age of 60, depending upon the contribution by the subscriber at the age between 18-40 years. The government would guarantee the minimum pension.

Members of the unorganised workers joint action committee staged a demonstration on Tuesday, against the proposed Draft Code on Social Security and Welfare.R. Geetha of the Unorganised Workers Federation said the code envisages the dissolution of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation and the Employees State Insurance Corporation, as well as the 34 welfare boards including 17 under the Department of Labour Welfare and another 17 boards under various departments. Instead, there will be one board at the State level and another at the Centre, she saidIf there is one board replacing all of the above, workers will face problems. For instance, nearly one crore workers will have to get registered all over again, she said, adding, Privatisation of the boards function is likely to happen and if it does, it will destroy the protection of workers. We are trying our best to stop this from being implemented. The proposal indicates there is miniscule representation of unorganised workers on the board.

If you are a salaried employee and contribute to the Employees Provident Fund (EPF), there is good news for youwithdrawals have become easier. EPF allows withdrawal if you are unemployed for at least two months or partial withdrawals for events such as medical emergencies, childrens education or buying a house.The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has introduced a simplified one page claim form, which can be used for partial or complete withdrawals. Also, partial withdrawals no longer require extra documents.For those whose Universal Account Number (UAN) is linked to their Aadhaar and bank account number, you can approach the EPFO directly for claims, bypassing the employer.Composite claim formPreviously, you had to fill up form 19 for complete withdrawal, form 10C for pension fund scheme certificate to retain membership of Employees Pension Scheme or to claim withdrawals, and form 31 for partial withdrawals. The new form, called the composite claim form, has collapsed all forms into one. There are two types; Aadhaar and non-Aadhaar forms.The Aadhaar-based composite form is meant for individuals who have activated their UAN and linked it with their Aadhaar and bank account number, and whose details are embedded in the UAN portal. It is simpler to fill.You only need to mention your name, registered mobile number, UAN, Aadhaar number, date of joining and leaving the company, in case of full withdrawal. For a partial withdrawal, mark the purpose for which you need the money and how much. Sign the form, attach a cancelled cheque and you are ready to go. The non-Aadhaar form needs details such as date of birth, fathers name and bank account details. It has to be signed by you and your employer.Easier partial withdrawalsAccording to the new form, one doesnt have to submit proof. For instance, if partial withdrawal was for a wedding (of self or children), one had to give supporting documents such as the wedding invitation card. In the new form, your signature is enough. But there is a disclaimer at the bottom which states that if the funds are used for any other purpose, the subscriber is liable to return the money with penal interest. But if partial withdrawal is for a medical emergency, you still need to submit proof like medical certificate and certificate by the employer that ESIC ( employees state insurance) facility is not available to the member.Online facilityA one-pager claim form seems to be a step in the digital direction. EPFO plans to launch an online facility from May for withdrawals, but this can only be used by individuals with Aadhaar and bank account-linked UAN.

Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission chairman Gejja Ram Valmiki held a review meeting with the officials of Municipal Corporation and Municipal Committees at Circuit House in Ludhiana Monday. (Twitter/@RamGejja)Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission chairman Gejja Ram Valmiki held a review meeting with the officials of Municipal Corporation and Municipal Committees at Circuit House in Ludhiana Monday.He was accompanied by the commissions vice-chairman Ram Singh Sardulgarh. Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Swati Tiwana and Deputy Director, Local Government, Amit Bamby also attended the meeting.Chairman Valmiki directed the officials of Municipal Corporation and Municipal Committees to check if the guidelines of the government regarding safai sewaks and sewermen were being followed. He directed the officials to regularise all the contractual safai sewaks and sewer-men as per the government guidelines.He also asked the officials to blacklist those contractors who were paying less salary to the safai sewaks. He said that the contractor must follow Equal Work, Equal Pay government rule and disburse salary in bank accounts of safai sewaks.He warned that the officials involved in Employees Provident Fund (EPF) and Employees State Insurance (ESI) fraud wont be spared and the entire amount will be recovered with interest.During the meeting, a one-minute silence was observed to pay homage to the farmers who died during the ongoing protest against three Central farm laws.

The Centre plans to widen consultations over a proposed social security code for workers, after a series of labour law reform proposals ran into opposition from trade unions.The labour ministry plans to hold several meetings with State governments to discuss the proposed law on social security for organised and unorganised workers beginning early next month, according to a senior ministry official.The idea is to build a GST (goods and services tax)-like consensus, said the official, who did not wish to be identified. We want a sense of acceptance and ownership among stakeholders as the labour code on social security will be one of the biggest reform measures.The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government has announced a slew of labour reform proposals including codes on industrial relations and wages, small factories Bill, factories (amendment) Bill, employees provident fund (amendment) Bill, and employees' state insurance (amendment) Bill.Going slowHowever, the government is going slow on the reforms mainly due to opposition from trade unions. Central trade unions, except the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, have participated in two one-day nationwide strikes in the last two years opposing the proposed labour reforms.The labour ministry now plans a single law on social security for workers that may combine and alter various laws such as the Employees Provident Fund & Miscellaneous Provision Act, 1952, the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948, the Employees Compensation Act, 1921, the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961.The Centre has held tripartite meetings on the proposals with industry and trade unions at the central level before sending it to the Cabinet for approval. It has also been placing the proposals in the public domain for comments from stakeholders and the wider public.A threadbare discussion is not possible in the tripartite meetings with industry and trade unions at the central level alone, the ministry official said. We want an in-depth consultation on the proposed social security law.Labour Minister Bandaru Dattatreya had said in August that the ministry had held about 25 tripartite meetings with stakeholders since coming to power in May 2014 to discuss workers-related issues.The labour ministry official said state-level officials, including welfare boards and local bodies, will also be a part of the discussion on the proposed social security code for workers. For framing the draft social security code, the Centre had also asked the International Labour Organisation (ILO) for technical assistance.Limited roleThe Centre should have held a wider consultation on other reforms instead, a labour law expert said.Taking States into confidence for the proposed social security law doesnt make sense as both EPFO and ESIC are governed by the central governments and States have limited role in it, said K.R. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resources management at XLRI.The government should have instead adopted this GST-like consultation model for the proposed industrial relations code.

Coimbatore: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced that the government is in the process of bringing in new legislation to secure the interests of both unorganised and organised workers. The Employees State Insurance Act and the Employees Provident Fund Organisation Act are aimed at providing a stronger welfare net.Inaugurating a new Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Medical College and Hospital in Coimbatore, he said these new laws would provide more choice, increased coverage for workers and employers, and better and expanded range of services for organized sector workers. He hoped the Tamil Nadu government would act quickly to start the college.The ESIC scheme entitles all government staff to free medical service at ESIC-run hospitals. There are 10 of them in TN. "This project worth Rs 580 crores will be a boon to ESIC beneficiaries," he said. "We should strive to make this medical college and hospital a model for high quality medical education and treatment to workers of the State," he said.ESIC has decided to adopt at least two model hospitals in each state. The Centre is committed to the development of a generous and comprehensive social safety net for all workers, he said.Speaking extempore in English, Modi said his government was looking at simplifying labour laws to increase the ease of doing business and facilitate job creation. "The labour ministry is simplifying central labour laws by consolidating 44 laws into four labour codes-wages, industrial relations, safety, security and health" he said. He also hinted that talks were on with trade unions. "We are building consensus on these reforms through extensive stakeholder consultations with employers, worker's representatives and state governments" he said.The government has approved a scheme for upgradation of existing state and Central government-run medical colleges to increase MBBS seats, he said.."Through this, we hope to increase 10,000 MBBS seats and support the colleges with funds for equipment and infrastructure. So far 23 medical colleges have been approved to increase over 1,700 MBBS seats." Four state government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu at Coimbatore, Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Madurai have been approved for upgradation by adding 345 more MBBS seats.me Minister Narendra Modi decided to reach out to the two biggest stakeholders in an industrial town-businessmen and workers. While he assured industrialists that he was working on improving their ease of doing business, he told workers that his government was committed to increasing their pension security and health insurance options.Giving the crores of unorganized and organized workers some good news, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that they are promulgating new Employees State Insurance Act and Employees Provident Fund Organisation Acts. The prime minister said these new acts would provide more choice, increase its coverage among sector.In the city to inaugurate the new Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) medical college and hospital and hand it over to the state government, the prime minister said that ESIC currently reaches out to two crore workers. "It currently covers seven lakh factories across the country thereby benefitting around 2 crore workers and 8 crore beneficiaries," he said. In Tamil Nadu, 85,000 employers and 28 lakh insured people are members of this scheme, he said. "Coimbatore itself has nearly 27,000 employers".The Prime Minister also said that his government was looking at simplifying labour laws to "increase the ease of doing business and facilitate job creation". "The labour ministry is simplifying central labour laws by consolidating 44 laws into four labour codes-wages, industrial relations, safety, security and health" he said. He also hinted that talks were already on with trade unions. "We are building consensus on these reforms through extensive stakeholder consultations with employers, worker's representatives and state governments" he said.The prime minister said they have already created a Shram Suvidha Portal for online services relating to 16 labour laws. "This includes administering a process of transparent and random inspections of businesses," he said. "A Labour Idenitification Number has been issued to nearly one million employers, enabling them to process single online filings on eight labour laws," he said.Speaking on the labour ministry-run ESIC hospitals and health care as such, he said he hoped the Tamil Nadu government would "act quickly to start the college". "This project worth Rs 580 crores will be a boon to ESIC beneficiaries," he said. "We should strive to make this medical college and hospital a model for high quality medical education and treatment to workers of the State," he said. ESIC has decided to adopt at least two model hospitals in each state.The prime minister said he hoped to add another 10,000 MBBS seats over the next few years. "For this we have approved a scheme for upgradation of existing state and central government medical colleges. "So far 23 medical colleges have been approved to increase over 1,700 MBBS seats," he said.

Employees need not wait for months together to get their Provident Fund (PF) back, said Navin Kumar Kanaujia, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Employees Provident Fund Organisation, speaking during an interactive session on EPF and ESI organised by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) at Automotive Axles training hall here on Saturday. If the employees account is attached with Aadhaar details, PF settlements will be done in four hours or maximum within a day, he added.As of now, these settlements are done in paper form, but in a few months time this will be a thing of the past. From March 2016, PF settlements will be done in a day. We are using Information Technology to transform our service and make things simpler, he said.We have brought in a lot of changes like filing of monthly returns, getting PF code and making remittance easier and faster through our online service,  he explained.Monthly meetHe urged employees to present their grievances or suggestions during the monthly grievances meet held at the PF office on the tenth of every month. V. Sridevi, Director, Directorate of Employees State Insurance Scheme (Medical Services), briefed about the State and Union governments role and responsibilities under the scheme.When N. Muthukumar, Chairman, CII and president, Automotive Axles Ltd.m brought to her notice that for the past two years due to non-payment of bills to ESI referral hospitals, employees with serious problems are not referred to referral hospitals for better treatment.Dr. Sridevi assured Dr. Muthukumar that in a month or two, the pending bills would be cleared. J.H. Nayak, Regional Director, ESI Corporation, Bengaluru, said that from August this year, contract workers were also included in the ESI scheme.

Contesting his first Lok Sabha election, from Patna Saheb constituency, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad argues that while the BJP has also been talking about its development work, the Oppositions suggestion that the attacks may have been engineered has made security an issue in these polls. Currently a Rajya Sabha member, Prasad holds the important portfolios of Law and IT in the NDA government and is its face when it comes to tackling contentious issues. The 64-year-old who began his career as a student leader and was also jailed during the Emergency, is confident that the BJP will win the Lok Sabha polls convincinglyAdvertisingRAVI SHANKAR PRASAD: The India of 2019 is not the India of the 90s. Its an aspirational India now. As the Minister for Information Technology, I see a new kind of aspiration in the youth. The way India has picked up on innovation India has become the second biggest centre for mobile manufacturing. India is the second biggest start-up country in the world.Also, the security of the country will figure prominently in the (election) discourse. The alarming regularity with which Congress leaders and their gurus have been challenging the whole narrative (of the Balakot aerial strikes) will also be a part of the public discourse.We are quite hopeful of winning the elections conclusively and convincingly. People of India want Narendra Modi to be the Prime Minister once again. You cant remove someone when there is no alternative  no alternative programmes or no alternative leader. The people of India are very mature. They know how to distinguish between a Vidhan Sabha election and a Lok Sabha election. The people of India will ensure that the BJP-led NDA will come back to power in a very conclusive manner.AdvertisingLIZ MATHEW: How different is the 2019 general election from 2014?Before the 2014 election there was policy paralysis, stinking corruption and a sense of hopelessness. The 2019 election is backed by performance, expectation, India emerging as a global power, which was clear in the way countries supported India at the UN Security Council in our bid to get Masood Azhar listed (as a global terrorist). We have ensured the complete isolation of Pakistan. People see this as a continuation of 2014, with the addition of better performance and hope which the government and the Prime Minister have created.Click here for more election newsLIZ MATHEW: What will be the main agenda in this election?The issues in these elections will be development, economic growth, India being recognised by global industries. It will be about inclusive development which we have brought about. Nine crore people have benefited from the Ujjwala Yojana. We need to remember another statistic. From 1947 till we came to power, about 6.25 crore toilets were constructed in rural parts of India. In the last five years alone 10 crore (toilets) have been built.Also, after the Pulwama terror attack, the manner in which opposition parties have raised questions, on the sacrifice of our jawans and the armed forces, which was designed to weaken their morale, has become an issue.LIZ MATHEW: So will the issue of national security dominate the discourse in the run-up to polls?I wont say that national security will be the only issue. It is an important issue. Nationalism will be an important issue. If an argument is made that the entire Pulwama tragedy was engineered for political consideration, it becomes an issue. But we have also been talking about development. We have talked about the job opportunities we have created in the country and what we have done for the farmers.KRISHN KAUSHIK: Speaking of jobs, data from the National Sample Survey Offices Periodic Labour Force Survey 2017-18 has revealed that for the first time since 1993-94, the actual size of Indias male workforce has shrunk.I seriously question the methodology of this report. It is a draft report. What questions were asked? If you ask, do you have a job, and if you ask do you have a livelihood, the answers are bound to be different. I also read in your newspaper that job opportunities for urban women have grown.Nearly 14 crore Indians have received Rs 7.8 lakh crore (as loans) under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, of which four crore-plus are first-time entrepreneurs. Is it not employment and livelihood creation? So many roads have been constructed in rural parts, more than 100 kilometres of national highways Around 73.50 lakh new subscribers were added to social security schemes of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation last year.Nearly 127 mobile phone manufacturing units have become operational in 2018 as compared to only two in 2014. In Noida and Greater Noida (where these units have come up), nearly five-six lakh people have got employment. So many airports and Metros have been added. All villages have been electrified. The economy is the fastest-growing economy in the world. Does it mean that no employment opportunity has been created? I regret to say that the NSSO data does not capture this.KRISHN KAUSHIK: You said the Opposition is questioning the armed forces. What is wrong with that?They are not questioning the armed forces but the very authenticity of the Balakot strikes; its different. The Foreign Secretary has made the Government of Indias official statement. The Air Chief has held a press conference confirming the strikes. Not a single country in the world has questioned the strike. When you say that give me evidence of the strikes then you are seeking to question the entire narrative. That has clear implications on morale. We need to trust our forces. Thats all we are saying. We are not saying you cannot raise questions. You can question. Its an accountable government. The narrative (that the Opposition is trying to create) is that the attack was engineered by the government or the ruling party for political purposes and that Balakot was an extension of that. It is regrettable. Also, just to remind you, when Osama bin Laden was killed, did anyone ask the US where they buried him? They just released elementary sketches.RISHI RAJ: There have been a series of dialogues with social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter on checking the spread of fake news and leak of users data. However, there is no clarity on what the government has achieved so far.We respect freedom of the press. I appreciate social media because it is a new empowerment tool for ordinary Indians. But the constitutional norms under Article 19 should also be kept in mind. So when a social media platform is used to promote radicalisation, terrorism, massacre, mayhem, we will be tough on them. They have realised it. We have also told them that if you abuse the data of Indians for collateral purposes, that will not be acceptable. The Election Commission is now on the job.I had issued a warning to Mark Zuckerberg, a good friend of mine. The very next day he apologised. Cambridge Analytica was issued a notice. They replied to one and eloped thereafter. The matter is now with the CBI.I had an interaction with WhatsApp. In the wake of lynchings, I asked them how was it that on the same day, on the same issue, at the same time, and in the same area, lakhs of the same message are being circulated. Its not rocket science to identify them. They have now limited forwarded messages to five. I also told them to set up a grievance cell and office in India. They have agreed.PRANAV MUKUL: There was a lot being done on the draft Personal Data Protection Bill, 2018. But it yet to see the light of the day.The Bill required more concentration. I said that since the whole world was awaiting our data protection law, so we must concentrate. Dont forget that the Justice B N Srikrishna Committee submitted that report (draft Bill), we had two-three rounds of consultations We needed some more consultation. I said if they want some more time, go ahead. I think we are coming back to power and then we will take care of it.KAUNAIN SHERIFF M: The revised Memorandum of Procedure (MoP) on appointment of judges has not been finalised yet. We know that in at least seven appointments, especially names recommended for elevation by the collegiums of the high courts of Kerala and Allahabad, you have raised objections citing the proximity of some candidates to sitting judges and judicial officers, and asked for a wider pool of names. Will we see some of these criteria in the finalised MoP?I think a judge should not be disqualified merely because of a relationship. That should not be the only criteria. If you are independently competent, then why not? Thats our approach and I am very happy that the judiciary also has the same.My approach to the MoP is very clear. There has to be a screening process based on suitability and merit. There must be a corpus of competent people to choose from. There must be an institutional mechanism of screening  at the collegium, high court and Supreme Court. That job is still going on. We will discuss it again. I have never said that the appointments are bad, I wish to make that very clear.RAVISH TIWARI: The Modi government seems to have a very tense relationship with the judiciary. Why are you so angry with them?Its not about anger. We had mentioned in our manifesto that the present system of appointments should change. This has been said in three Law Commission reports as well. Also, the highest number of judicial appointments have happened in the last five years. The average appointment of high court judges since 1989 has been between 83-84. In 2016, there were 126 judges appointed to high courts  the highest in 30 years. There have been 110-115 (appointments) every year.About the collegium architecture, the Supreme Court itself has said that the government has the right to seek reconsideration. And, whenever we have sought a reconsideration, it has been objective, fair and reasonable.RAVISH TIWARI: But the government doesnt seem to respond to the judiciarys concerns. Last January, when four senior judges held a press conference and spoke out against the then chief justice, the government was silent. There was no attempt to address their concerns.The government should not interfere in the workings of the judiciary. The government must not at all interfere in the constitutional workings of the Supreme Court. I dont want to get into the circumstances under which (the press conference) was held. The concerns of the judiciary family should be settled in the family itself.I did intervene in a definitive case. It was about the appointment of a judge to the Karnataka High Court against whom there were serious allegations of misbehaviour with a lady. There was a complaint against him. I said you will not be appointed till a fair enquiry is conducted.KIRAN RATHEE: You mentioned the increase in mobile phone factories in India. But these are mostly assembling units. Real manufacturing isnt taking place here. Mostly Chinese companies are coming here to set up a base and many Indian companies are being pushed out of the market.I differ with you on the point that these are only assembling units. Assembly is the initial process for manufacturing. Also, I dont agree that Indian companies are being pushed out. Overcoming hiccups is a part of the process and we will overcome them. If you have Chinese companies coming here then there are a lot of Indian companies in China too.LIZ MATHEW: What do you make of all the hatred and negativity directed at minority communities and Muslims on social media?We dont support it all. When the lynchings were happening, the Prime Minister said, Unko mat maro, himmat hai toh mujhe maaro (Dont kill them. If you have the courage, kill me). It was a tough message and tough action has been taken.But yes, why is the yardstick of secularism only used against us. What is Mamataji (Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee) doing in Bengal? The number of religious processions that have been physically stopped there In Kerala RSS workers are being killed cruelly. Even Congress people are being killed. There has to be a holistic view. If you look at our record objectively I have raised the issue of triple talaq. I thought women leaders such as Soniaji (Gandhi) and Priyanka Gandhi will do more, but nothing. These are important issues.LIZ MATHEW: But triple talaq affects less than 2 per cent of the Muslim population. Its an important issue, but what about issues such as lack of social development and education that affect the community? Shouldnt the government focus on that?You cant say why did you do this and not that. Its a gender equality and gender justice issue. Yes, we have to take care of other things as well. So many women have been covered under the Ujjwala Yojana, it also includes Muslim women. If two crore people in India have got the benefits of Ayushman Bharat, it also includes Muslims. Of the 14 crore Mudra Yojana beneficiaries, almost one- third are women, minorities and SC/STs. It is not from the perspective of getting votes. It is the duty of the government to take care of everyone.ABANTIKA GHOSH: Speaking of gender quality, why has the womens reservation Bill not been passed yet?It has been discussed. At the panchayat level, many of our states have given 50 per cent reservation to women. In municipalities too. In a first, the Prime Minister has given women pilots a chance to fly fighter planes. We have had BSF women on bullet motorcycles showing their riding prowess on Rajpath. There are other things as well, such as the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao Yojana.Yes, there is a genuine divide (on the Bill). We need to build a consensus. Some believe that only OBC women should be given reservation. They believe that if there is blanket reservation, then only elite, educated women will occupy the positions. Some want reservation for OBC, SC/ST and other extremely backward castes also. We need to find answers to these questions. These issues need to be debated.RAVISH TIWARI: For a long time now we have been hearing about Ram Lalla, mandir wahin banayenge (We will make the temple there).AdvertisingIts our firm commitment that a Ram Lalla temple should be erected. The matter is in the Supreme Court. Both the President and the Prime Minister have said that you have to achieve it through constitutional means. And yes, we would like the hearing to be expedited. In the case of Sabarimala, Section 377, urban Maoists, the hearing was expedited. This suit is 70 years old, and as a lawyer for Ram Lalla, I know that there is overpowering evidence available on which the argument to expedite the hearing can be made. I hope the court does that.

Savings remaining unclaimed in dormant Employees Provident Fund (EPF) accounts for seven years will be used to fund a new scheme for providing medical benefits to pensioners under the EPF scheme, according to Labour Ministry sources.The move comes after a committee of secretaries, headed by Cabinet Secretary P.K. Sinha, recently directed the Labour Ministry to frame a scheme, for the benefit of senior citizens who are PF subscribers, from inoperative account funds, according to documents seen by The Hindu.With respect to the unclaimed money available in Provident Fund Organisations (Coal Miners PF, etc), the respective ministries may consider formulating and implementing schemes for the benefit of senior citizens belonging to the groups subscribing to the PF, said the minutes of the meeting chaired by Mr.Sinha on February 10 with secretaries of a dozen central government ministries.Talks on schemeThe EPFO has already started discussions with the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) to frame a medical benefits scheme for pensioners under Employees Pension Scheme (EPS) of the EPFO.Senior EPFO officials said the scheme will be contributory in nature with EPF pensioners contributing a portion of their income towards the medical scheme and rest flowing from inoperative accounts of the EPFO.Once the scheme is put in place, EPF pensioners will be able to avail medical facilities from a network of more than 1,400 dispensaries and 150 hospitals under ESIC across the country.Under the ESI Act, workers drawing salary of up to Rs. 15,000 per month are entitled to medical benefits for treatment during sickness, maternity, disability and death due to injury during work. The Act applies to factories with 10 or more workers and also to shops, hotels, restaurants, cinemas and road transport undertakings.Welfare fundThe government had framed a law last year wherein unclaimed money under EPF, Public Provident Fund and small saving schemes such as post office savings accounts for a period of seven years will be diverted to set up a senior citizens welfare fund.The trade unions had strongly protested the move to divert EPF money for setting up a fund for the elderly. Following this, Labour Minister Bandaru Dattatreya wrote to Finance Ministry to not divert unclaimed EPF money for other purposes.The unclaimed EPF money will be diverted for EPF pensioners only. So, we are sure trade unions will not be concerned any more, said a senior Labour Ministry official.EPF money becomes unclaimed after a subscriber doesnt withdraw money after reaching 61 years of age. Accounts also become inoperative if persons settling abroad do not withdraw their money within three years.

The Dharwad Telecom District Committee of Karnataka State BSNL Non Permanent Workers Union staged a protest here on Wednesday seeking benefits that are due for the contract employees.Staging the protest in front of the office of the General Manager of Dharwad Telecom Circle near Dr. Ambedkar Circle here, the protesters said that they were forced to face hardships and their rightful demands were not being considered.The protestors included people working on contract basis in house keeping, cable maintenance and other sections of BSNL. They alleged that although Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited was their original employer, it had not seriously considered their demands and consequently the contractors were exploiting the workers. The protestors also condemned the reported move by the union government to privatise BSNL and urged the Centre to make availing services of BSNL mandatory in government and aided offices and public sector undertakings.They demanded a minimum pay of Rs. 15,000, skill pay for cable maintenance workers, regularisation of services of contract workers who had served for ten years and reinstatement of all those contract workers whose services had been discontinued without any valid reason.The contract workers also objected to deductions from their pays in the name of service tax and sought mandatory implementation of laws relating to Employees Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance Corporation.Addressing the protestors General Secretary of District Committee Mahesh Pattar, trade union leaders Harish Doddamani and B.N. Poojari urged the BSNL senior officials to regularly check the implementation of the labour laws by the contract agencies.Contract workers serving in the BSNL exchanges of Gadag, Haveri and Dharwad district participated in the agitation.People on contract in house keeping, cable maintenance and other sections took partThey condemn Union governments proposed move to privatise BSNL

MUMBAI: A recent report commissioned by the government and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has called for greater incentives to the private sector to boost employment for persons with disabilities (PWDs). Incentives such as grants can be used by the employer to make the workplace more accessible and for providing assistive technologies such as voice software or training.The findings and suggestions of the report, 'Livelihood opportunities for PWDs' , are expected to be included in the 12th Five Year Plan (2012-17 ), which aims to be more inclusive. The government sector has a mandatory quota of 3% for PWDs. For the private sector, the PWD Act, 1995, provides for incentives if at least 5% of the workforce comprises PWDs. Here, the government makes payment of the employer's contributions to the Employees Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance for the first three years as an incentive for PWD employees earning up to Rs 25,000 per month.Some countries have a mandatory PWD job quota for the private sector with penal provisions  Germany (5%), Austria (4%), Poland (6%), Italy (a sliding scale of up to 7%), Spain (2%) and Japan (1.6%). Others like the USA rely on lucrative tax credit incentive schemes. Some, such as Japan use a carrot-and-stick approach and grants are also available to the private sector.However, experts do not favour a quota regime because of perceived practical difficulties and its failure in the government sector. "There may be practical difficulties for PWDs to execute certain tasks, which would then lead employers to reserve certain types of jobs only for PWDs, leading creation of the kind of stereotypes which we are fighting against," said Nirmita Naraimhan , advocate and program manager, Centre for Internet & Society."Only a handful of companies employ PWDs. To boost private sector participation , the PWD employment incentive target (currently 5% of the workforce ) must be realistic. Second , lucrative incentives could be a solution," said Javed Abidi, director, NCPEDP (National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People).At this juncture, it is largely corporate philosophy that results in PWD hiring , especially in the hospitality and IT/ITeS sector. Cafe Coffee Day (CCD) has around 150 'Silent Brewmasters' . Other staff members are trained in the basics of sign language for optimal team functioning. "CCD's Silent Brewmasters specialize in brewing because of their heightened sense of smell and vision, thereby ensuring the most visually appealing presentation of our coffees. They are each cafe's best quality controllers," said K Ramakrishnan, president (Marketing), CCD."We have 110 PWDs in our team (5% of the total work force across 18 hotels) who are hearing and speech impaired . Initially, they functioned in back office operations, but some innovation such as numbered menu cards helps them interact with customers and results in an overall good factor," said Patu Keswani, chairman and MD, The Lemon Tree Hotel Company.Nasscom Foundation helps create a proper ecosystem . "Not only are PWDs placed in the IT-ITES sector, but the companies are helped in undertaking accessibility audits, motivated to generate accessible tools and help others get access to such tools," explained Rita Soni, CEO Nasscom Foundation.E-Vindhya, where 95% of the workforce comprises PWDs and the rest are hired based on their sensitivity towards their PWD colleagues, is perhaps an exception. But other companies are also adopting an inclusive approach. At MindTree and Mphasis, at least 1% of the workforce comprises PWDs. Infosys BPO, Aegis, Wipro, and IBM are some other companies that adopt an integrated approach in dealing with PWD employees.

Barpeta, July 26: A widow, whose son accidentally drowned in a pond on June 4, was today handed over Rs 2 lakh as the first beneficiary from Assam under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana.Bidyut, 19, son of Bijaya Das, a resident of Nagaon village, had drowned in the village pond while bathing.Bidyut was a Class-XII student of Nagaon Bausi Bani-kanta College. He had an account in the Union Bank of In-dia's Nagaon branch and had recently opened the insurance policy by paying Rs 12 as annual premium for the scheme.The bank, having tie-up with New India Assu-rance Company, recently paid the insurance amount of Rs 2 lakh to his mother's account. Since Bidyut had named his mother as the nominee of his insurance policy, today she was handed over the papers of the scheme at a public meeting held at Nagaon village today.Bijaya, who lost her husband years ago, has been running the family by stitching clothes. Divisional manager of New India Assurance Company's Bongaigaon division, Raju Rajok, said of the five claims made so far in the county under the PMSBY, Bijaya was the first claimant and beneficiary from Assam.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 9 launched the scheme, along with two others - Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and the Atal Pension Yojana.

LUDHIANA: The general body meeting of association of Punjab School Education Board (PSEB)-affiliated schools was held on Sunday on the premises of Harsh Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School, Subhash Nagar. The meeting was held under presidentship of Rajinder Sharma. Among those present were R L Sewak, vice-president, I M Dutta, general secretary, S S Bedi from Nabha, and other representatives from various districts of Punjab. Problems faced by affiliated schools of the state were discussed at the meeting. More than 200 representatives from various districts of the state attended the meeting.The main problems discussed at the meeting included Employees State Insurance Act (ESI Act) imposed on the affiliated schools, semester system problems, Employees Provident Fund (EPF), transport and house taxes, commercial rate of electricity and water and sewerage charges imposed on the affiliated schools. A proposal for lowering of the examination fee was passed, with it being maintained the fee was a burden on meagre resources of parents.On this occasion, Rajinder Sharma said the board should declare the semester examination result within a month of the exam so that they can admit students for the next session. He further said sewerage and water charges of the affiliated schools should be treated in terms of domestic category since the schools strive to serve the society to eliminate illiteracy. These schools do not get any grant or aid from government.I M Dutta, general secretary of the association, said government and aided schools fall under domestic rates category. Government is meting out step-motherly treatment to affiliated schools.

New Delhi, June 3: Mounting bad loans have provided a grim backdrop to finance minister Arun Jaitley's review meeting with the heads of public sector banks on Monday.The financial performance of most public sector banks during the March quarter was weighed down by a spike in bad loans and provisioning because of a review sought by the RBI.Officials said bad loans and the worsening balance sheets of banks were part of the agenda on Monday. The finance minister will also discuss bank consolidation and their capital requirement.Jaitley will also assess the progress of government schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.Besides, issues relating to housing loan, medium and small enterprises credit, financial inclusion and literacy are likely to be discussed.Several state-run banks have posted record losses in the fourth quarter of 2015-16. In the last six months, 22 state-owned banks reported losses of Rs 30,700 crore. Gross NPAs of PSUs have risen to Rs 3,61,731 lakh crore in December 2015 from Rs 2,67,065 lakh crore in March.The meeting with the bank chiefs also comes at a time bank consolidation is in the air, with the State Bank of India looking to merge all its five associate banks with itself and transform into a bigger behemoth.Along with the CEOs of public sector banks and financial institutions, the meeting will be attended by minister of state for finance Jayant Sinha, financial services secretary Anjuly Chib Duggal, and senior officers of the ministry of finance.

New Delhi, Jun 26 () Two key labour reform bills may not come up in the Monsoon Session of Parliament beginning next month while legislations on three populist measures could be introduced.Progress is slow on key bills like Industrial Relations Code and Small Factories bill, which are aimed at improving ease of doing business in the country, sources said."The Labour Ministry is going slow on labour reforms in view of the government's focus on job creation and safeguarding workers' rights," a source said.The source further said the Ministry is unlikely to move those bills which would improve ease of doing business and in the Monsoon Session they would rather push for passage the bills that seek to provide more facilities and benefits to workers and safeguard their rights.The Ministry will push bills including Maternity Benefit Bill, Employees' Compensation Bill, Employees' Provident Fund Amendment Bill and Child Labour Bill.The Maternity Benefit Bill seeks to enhance maternity leave to 26 weeks from existing 12 weeks. The Employees' Compensation Bill aims to enhance maximum compensation amount in case of any injury to workers without going to high courts.The EPF Bill seeks to reduce the threshold for coverage of firms under the social security scheme run by retirement fund body EPFO to 10 workers from existing 20 workers. This is expected to cover 50 lakh more workers under EPFO schemes.The Child Labour Bill, which is already pending in Parliament, can be passed during this session. It seeks to prohibit employing children below 14 years in all occupations.The source said progress is slow on bills that have been bone of contention and are being opposed by trade unions. These include the Industrial Relations Code and the Small Factories Act.The source further said the Industrial Relations Code Bill is still stuck in Law Ministry for approval while Small Factories Bill was sent to Cabinet months ago for its nod.The Industrial Code Bill combines Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, Trade Unions Act, 1926, and the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946.The provision relating to easing retrenchment, lay off and closure norms and tougher rules for forming unions in the proposed bill has led to uproar by central trade unions. They went on nationwide strike on September 2, 2015 to protest against proposed amendments to labour laws to improve ease of doing business including through Industrial Code and Small Factories Bill.The Small Factories Bill aims to improve ease of doing business and create an ecosystem for encouraging small businesses. It seeks to exempt small units with less than 40 workers from tedious compliance of 14 labour laws including Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act and Employees State Insurance (ESI)Act.As per the Bill, such units can buy health insurance and provident funds products available in the market instead of subscribing to the mandatory social sector schemes of Employees State Insurance Corporation and Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). KKS RNK BJ ABM

Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi.I dream of a digital India where mobile and e-banking ensures financial inclusion.  Prime Minister Narendra ModiFinancial inclusion is the way governments strive to take the common people along by bringing them into the formal channel of the economy, thereby ensuring that even the last person in the queue is not left out from the benefits of economic growth. The poor, by becoming a part of the mainstream economy, are encouraged to invest in various financial products and to borrow from formal channels.The lack of financial inclusion is costly to the individual as well as to society as a whole. For the individual, a lack of financial inclusion forces the unbanked into informal banking sectors where interest rates are higher and the amount of available funds much smaller. Because the informal banking structure is outside any legislative framework, any dispute between lenders and borrowers cannot be settled legally. As far as the social benefits are concerned, financial inclusion increases the amount of available savings, the rate of capital formation, efficiency of financial inter-mediation, and thereby allows the tapping of new business opportunities.State sponsored universal banking has, therefore, contributed to a greater economic diversification in rural areas than is the case in the more competitive banking environments. With structural adjustment programmes being introduced in the 1980s and 1990s, financial market reforms swept over many developing countries. At the beginning of the 20th century, India had insurance companies (both life and general) and a functional stock exchange.The scope of financial inclusion is not limited to banking services. It extends to other financial services like insurance, equity products, pension products etc. Thus, financial inclusion is not just about opening a bank account or a branch in an unbanked area.Financial inclusion also helps government plug gaps and leakages in public subsidies and welfare programmes as the government can directly transfer the subsidy amount into the account of the beneficiary. In fact, the government has saved more than Rs 57,000 crore in its subsidy bill and ensured that the benefit of the subsidy reaches the real beneficiary directly.The NDA government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, committed itself since the beginning of its term to give special emphasis to the financial inclusion of every person in the country. One of the most crucial of the several steps taken by this government to that end is JAM  Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile.With a view to increase the penetration of banking services and to ensure that all households have at least one bank account, the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna was announced by PM Modi in his Independence Day speech on August 15, 2014, and the scheme was formally launched on August 28, 2014. Within a fortnight, the scheme entered the Guinness World Records for opening a record number of bank accounts. By mid-August 2017, 29.48 crore accounts were opened, out of which 17.61 crore accounts were in rural/semi-urban areas and 11.87 crore in urban areas. On opening an account under the Jan Dhan Scheme, a customer gets the additional benefits of a RuPay debit card with an inbuilt insurance cover of Rs 1 lakh and an overdraft (OD) facility of Rs 5,000 is granted to the customer for satisfactory operation of the account for six months. A life cover of Rs 30,000 has also been granted for opening accounts in a certain time period. The scheme has been a great success and the 99.99 per cent of the 21.22 crore households surveyed have been covered under this scheme by December 2016. More than 44 lakh accounts have been sanctioned the OD facility of which more than 23 lakh account holders have availed the facility involving an amount of around Rs 300 crore.In order to provide social security to all citizens and especially to the poor and underprivileged, the present government launched the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY).The PMSBY covers persons between 18 to 70 years and a risk cover of Rs 2 lakh is provided at an affordable premium of Rs 12 per annum. As of April 12, around 10 crore people were enrolled under the PMSBY, which covers persons between 18 to 50 years with a bank account. A life cover of Rs 2 lakh is provided to the insured, payable in the event of the death of the insured due to any reason.The Atal Pension Yojana, launched in 2015, is open to all bank account holders between 18 to 40 years and they can choose different premiums based on the pension amount. Under this scheme, a monthly pension is guaranteed to the subscriber and after him to his spouse and after their death, the pension corpus as accumulated till the age of 60 years is given to the nominee of the subscriber. The central government also contributes 50 per cent of the premium subject to a maximum of Rs 1,000 per annum. As on March 31, a total of 46.80 lakh subscribers have been enrolled in the Atal Pension Yojana with a total pension worth Rs 1713.214 crore.To expand the network of ATMs, the RBI has allowed non-bank entities to start ATMs (called White Label ATMs). RuPay Cards have significantly increased its market share to 38 per cent (250 million) of the total 645 million debit cards in the country so far. The card has been provided to the account holders of PMJDY (170 million).Financial Literacy Centres were started by commercial banks at the request of the RBI. The central banks policy is that financial inclusion should go along with financial literacy. The launch of direct benefit transfers through the support of Aadhaar is a major biggest factor that led people to open new bank accounts and continue to use them. To further strengthen financial inclusion in the country, the government has advised the banks to deploy micro ATMs in rural areas and consequently, 1,14,518 micro ATMs had been deployed by December 2016.With the venture capital scheme, SC/ST groups were encouraged to become job providers instead of job seekers. Initially, in this scheme, loans were provided from Rs 50 lakh to Rs 15 crore and from Rs 20 lakh to 15 crore. The government had encouraged SCs/STs to stand on their own. The schemes of 70 ventures and funds to the tune Rs 265 crore have been approved, and funds to 40 ventures have already been distributed. These ventures, on average, provide employment to 20-25 people.In conclusion, the government is committed to its target  the inclusion of every household in the financial system so that the masses can get all the legitimate benefits arising out of the growth of the country. The funds mobilised from the people, now being brought in to the formal channel, will give the economy an extra thrust on its path of growth.For all the latest Opinion News, download Indian Express App

PM Narendra Modis Mann ki BaatPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that manthan (churning) was necessary in a democracy while referring to the criticisms and the distinction marks his government received on the completion of one year in power at the Centre.In his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast, he said: Waise loktantra mein yeh manthan bahut aavashyak hota haipaksh vipaksh aavashyak hota hai. Kya kamian rahin, usko bhi jaan-na bahut zaroori hota hai. Kya acchaiyan rahin, uska bhi apna laabh hota hai (In a democracy, churning is necessary Views, for and against, are important. It is necessary to know the shortcomings. The good things have their own benefits).Underscoring his governments resolve to implement the One Rank, One Pension (OROP) scheme for ex-servicemen, the Prime Minister asked the defence community to have faith in him and give him some time to sort out the complexities of the issue. Is it not true that this question has been pending for 40 years? Is it not true that all the previous governments talked about it, but actually did nothing? I assure youI have promised ex-servicemen that my government will implement One Rank, One Pension, Modi said during his 25-minute programme.Stating that various government departments were working on OROP, the PM said the issue was not as simple as he thought it to be. It is complicated and problems have got added to it during the past 40 years I have tasked everybody in the government to find a way in which this can be made simpler and unanimous, he added.Pal pal ki khabrein media mein dena zaroori nahin hota hai. (There cannot be a running commentary on this). I assure you that this government will find a solution to the One Rank, One Pension issue, the PM said.READ: Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi assures One rank One Pension issue will be resolved soonSlamming those playing politics on the matter, the PM told the ex-servicemen that those people had played with them for (the past) 40 years.I dont agree to that path. And I dont want to take a step that would further complicate problems Those who want to rake up the issue, do politics over it, let them do, he said. You have been patient for 40 years. Give me some time..give me an opportunity to work, and we will sort this out together, the PM added.A long-standing demand of over two million ex-servicemen in the country, One Rank One Pension would ensure a uniform pension for defence personnel retiring in the same rank with the same length of service, irrespective of their date of retirement.Stating that he feels for the poor, the PM also talked about the response about three recently launched social security schemes  PM Insurance Scheme, the Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Scheme  among the masses. He said that within 20 days of their launch, 8.52 crore people had enrolled for these schemes.These schemes are a very important step for social security. These will ensure that the poor are not dependent on anybody and are empowered, Modi said, adding he wants to create an army from among the poor to fight poverty and defeat it so that the burden of poverty is removed.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App

MANGALURU: Union minister for law and justice D V Sadananda Gowda said the launch of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's pet social security schemes is a testimony to the fact that the NDA government is with the poor and the middle-class.Gowda was speaking at a district-level launch ceremony of the social security schemes - Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana - in the city on Saturday. "People were spreading false propaganda that the government of Narendra Modi is working for the rich in the country. Today, the Prime Minister has proved them wrong by launching social security schemes in Kolkata that the government exists for everyone the country. Previous governments too have launched several social security schemes. However, the schemes launched today are not limited to a section of the society. Every citizen of this country is eligible to avail the benefits of the three schemes," he added."People ridiculed Modi when Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana was launched. The scheme that allowed every family to have a bank account with zero balance has enabled the government to prevent corruption by middlemen. People are now able to avail government scheme benefits through their bank accounts directly," Gowda said.Lauding the efforts of bank officials, who worked for the success of Jan-Dhan Yojana, Gowda said that 13 crore accounts have been opened under the programme within six months. "It is the bankers in the nation, who took banking to the doorsteps of the poor. The Prime Minister has appreciated the banking fraternity for making Jan-Dhan Yojana a success. I call upon all bank employees to make an effort to make the social security schemes successful by extending benefits to everyone in the country," Gowda said.This government is aiming at bringing transparency in all spheres of administration. This is necessary for the development of nation, he said. "It is only a matter of time before the nation will be free from the clutches of corruption. A new chapter of economic prosperity will be added soon to the history of India," he added.MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, deputy commissioner A B Ibrahim, zilla panchayat CEO P I Sreevidya, city corporation commissioner Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, Syndicate Bank zonal general manager K T Rai, Corporation Bank chairman and managing director S R Bansal and Uco Bank chairman and managing director Arun Kaul, who is also the representative of Union finance ministry, were present.

Wider ambit:The Centre will also use data from schemes such as EPF to determine formalisation of workforce.The task force on employment data set up by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to submit its report next week and could recommend inclusion of data on jobs created under the governments employment generation programmes such as MGNREGA and MUDRA.The revamped data will also use proxies such as vehicle registrations in the country in a year to determine informal job creation in the economy, using the unconventional metric that a few jobs are created with every car sold, said officials aware of the development.The idea is to try and use some unorthodox methods that can give us data on job creation. For instance, how much employment is generated in the form of mechanics, cleaners or drivers with the registration of vehicles? Other countries use such a metric but we want to tap all such sources, a senior official said.The use of technology such as mobile phones or tablet devices in conducting employment survey by agencies such as National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) and Labour Bureau is also being explored by the task force led by NITI Aayog vice chairman Arvind Panagariya.The task force is learnt to have finalised the contours of its report on revamping employment statistics, to be submitted to the Prime Ministers Office next week.Data from schemesApart from an endeavour to capture informal sector workers in the new employment-unemployment data series, the Centre would also use data from social security schemes such as the Employees Provident Fund, National Pension System and Employees State Insurance Corporation to determine formalisation of workforce in a year, said another official.While the enterprise-level quarterly survey may be conducted by Labour Bureau, the annual household survey conducted by the Bureau at present may go. It will be replaced with a revamped annual household survey which may be conducted by National Sample Survey Office.

NEW DELHI: Savings due to Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) over the last three years have touched Rs 50,000 cr as on December 31, 2016, as per latest government figures. This amount is equivalent to the subsidy paid out under DBT in this financial year, implying nearly a year's subsidy was saved."The savings figure is expected to significantly rise further in the next financial year as the government will be bringing a total of 533 central payout schemes in 64 ministries under the DBT mechanism by March 31, 2018 as per the directions of PM Narendra Modi," a top government official told ET.Presently, 84 schemes in 17 ministries are covered under the DBT, up from 34 schemes as on March 31, 2015. "Under UPA , the talk was only about big scams and several lakh crore rupees of losses. There is no scam now...instead we have saved nearly Rs 50,000 cr by crediting the subsidy amounts directly in the bank accounts of the correct beneficiaries and eliminating ghost beneficiaries," the top official added. Nearly 33 crore people receive various subsidies directly in their bank accounts now through DBT.As per government's interim figures as on December 31, the cumulative DBT savings stand at Rs 49,650 cr, pending information from many states. The top government official pitted this figure against the one of Rs 48,860 cr of subsidy transferred through DBT in this financial year till December 31, 2016. The total DBT payout since 2014 till date has been Rs 1.6 lakh cr. "This implies that nearly one year of total subsidy payout has been saved by the government through DBT," the official said.Though the DBT mechanism started in 2013 under the UPA on a pilot basis, it took off in a major way only under Modi government after the LPG subsidy scheme (Pahal) was commenced through the DBT mechanism in November 2014. "We saved Rs 15,192 cr in 2014-15, Rs 20,951 cr in 2015-16 and nearly Rs 14,000 Cr in 2016-17 till December 31, 2016 through DBT," the official said.The government says it has saved almost Rs 14,000 cr in its Public Distribution Scheme (PDS) by deleting 2.33 cr ration cards so far and better targeting of beneficiaries through DBT. Rs 7,633 cr is cited as the savings in the MGNREGS scheme by the government so far. Rs 399 cr is cited as savings in the National Social Assistance Programme. The biggest saving of Rs 26,408 cr is cited in the LPG PAHAL scheme , including Rs 4,824 Cr in the first nine months of this financial year. The LPG subsidy payout qualifies as the world's largest cash transfer programme, Centre claims. The government is sticking to its guns on the LPG subsidy savings figure despite the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (C&AG) poking holes in the same in a recent report saying the savings were "exaggerated".C&AG said the government had assumed that the 3.11 cr blocked or inactive customers would have availed 12 subsidised cylinders apiece rather than only 6 cylinders as per national average per capita consumption of cylinders.The major schemes new on DBT platform over the next one year will include Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana, PM Suraksha Bima Yojana and PM Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, PM Crop Insurance Scheme and PM Gramin Awas Yojana.

The Syndicate Bank, the lead bank in Prakasam district, has exhorted the savings bank account holders to avail of the benefits of life and accidental insurance schemes which are becoming operational from June 1.Giving the details about the Prime Minister's Suraksha Bima Yojana, Lead Bank district Manager M. Narasimha Rao said account holders in the age group of 18 to 70 could get accidental death risk coverage of Rs. 2 lakh, by paying a premium of just Rs. 12 per annum. Under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, those in the age group of 18 to 50 could get life insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh up to 55 years on payment of a premium of just Rs. 330 a year, he told the media here on Wednesday. The insured could opt for auto debit facility for uninterrupted coverage under both the schemes.He said that those in the unorganised sector could get a monthly pension between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 5000 on attaining the age of 60 years by subscribing to the Atal Pension Yojana. While those entering the scheme at the age of 18 years would have to pay Rs. 42 a month for a minimum pension of Rs. 1000, those joining the scheme at the age of 40 years would have to pay Rs. 291 a month, he said.

If you are a salaried employee and contribute to the Employees Provident Fund (EPF), there is good news for youwithdrawals have become easier. EPF allows withdrawal if you are unemployed for at least two months or partial withdrawals for events such as medical emergencies, childrens education or buying a house.The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has introduced a simplified one page claim form, which can be used for partial or complete withdrawals. Also, partial withdrawals no longer require extra documents.For those whose Universal Account Number (UAN) is linked to their Aadhaar and bank account number, you can approach the EPFO directly for claims, bypassing the employer.Composite claim formPreviously, you had to fill up form 19 for complete withdrawal, form 10C for pension fund scheme certificate to retain membership of Employees Pension Scheme or to claim withdrawals, and form 31 for partial withdrawals. The new form, called the composite claim form, has collapsed all forms into one. There are two types; Aadhaar and non-Aadhaar forms.The Aadhaar-based composite form is meant for individuals who have activated their UAN and linked it with their Aadhaar and bank account number, and whose details are embedded in the UAN portal. It is simpler to fill.You only need to mention your name, registered mobile number, UAN, Aadhaar number, date of joining and leaving the company, in case of full withdrawal. For a partial withdrawal, mark the purpose for which you need the money and how much. Sign the form, attach a cancelled cheque and you are ready to go. The non-Aadhaar form needs details such as date of birth, fathers name and bank account details. It has to be signed by you and your employer.Easier partial withdrawalsAccording to the new form, one doesnt have to submit proof. For instance, if partial withdrawal was for a wedding (of self or children), one had to give supporting documents such as the wedding invitation card. In the new form, your signature is enough. But there is a disclaimer at the bottom which states that if the funds are used for any other purpose, the subscriber is liable to return the money with penal interest. But if partial withdrawal is for a medical emergency, you still need to submit proof like medical certificate and certificate by the employer that ESIC ( employees state insurance) facility is not available to the member.Online facilityA one-pager claim form seems to be a step in the digital direction. EPFO plans to launch an online facility from May for withdrawals, but this can only be used by individuals with Aadhaar and bank account-linked UAN.

Panaji: Goa will join seven other BJP-ruled states on May 9 to launch three central government schemes - two insurance and one pension - for the common man.Chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar, on Wednesday, said that the three central government schemes have been named as Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (accident insurance scheme), Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (life insurance cover for death due to any reason) and Atal Pension Yojana (a pension scheme for people in the unorganized sector).Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the schemes nationwide at around 6pm on May 9, in a function that will be telecast. Goa will mark the launch by holding functions simultaneously at seven venues all over Goa between 5pm and 7.30pm, when citizens will be enrolled under the scheme.Parsekar elaborated on the schemes. The Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana is an accident insurance scheme for one year, renewable from year to year. It offers accidental death and disability cover for death or disability due to accident only. All savings bank account holders in the age group of 18 to 70 are eligible for this scheme. The premium is 12 per annum per member. It will be deducted from the account holder's savings bank account through "auto debit" facility in one installment. Benefits are 2 lakh for death and 2 lakh for total disability and 1 lakh for partial disability.The second scheme is the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana. It offers life insurance cover for death due to any reason. The scheme will give cover for one year, renewable from year to year. This scheme will be administered through Life Insurance Corporation. All savings bank account holders in the age group of 18 to 50 years are eligible for the scheme. The premium is 330 per annum per member and the benefit is Rs 2 lakh payable on member's death due to any reason.The third scheme is the Atal Pension Yojana (APY). This scheme is more for the working poor in the unorganized sector and will help them save for the retirement. Under the scheme, there is guaranteed monthly pension for the subscriber (after crossing age of 60) ranging between 1,000 per month to 5000 per month depending on the premium the subscriber pays.Parsekar said all three schemes are very simple and require no documents except Aadhaar card. tnn

Kolkata, May 9, 2015 (IANS) 19:18 ISTPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched three ambitious social security schemes, relating to the insurance and pension sector and intended at widening the process of financial inclusion.On his first visit to West Bengal after taking over as prime minister, he kickstarted the "Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana" (accident insurance), "Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Yojana" (life insurance) and "Atal Pension Yojana" at a programme in Nazrul Manch here.West Bengal Governor K.N. Tripathi, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and union ministers Jayant Sinha and Babul Supriyo attended the function where Modi inaugurated a plaque by pressing a remote button to launch the schemes.An audio visual film was then shown highlighting salient features of the three schemes. The prime minister then handed out certificates to the first three subscribers - including two women.The Jan Suraksha Yojana, under which the schemes were launched countrywide, is expected to reduce the number of zero balance bank accounts created under the Jan Dhan Yojana. The schemes target the poor and unorganised sector who are neither covered by any form of insurance nor get pension.Under the accident insurance scheme, a person will be provided cover of Rs.200,000 for an annual premium of Rs.12. The cover is for accidental death or permanent total disability.The scheme will be available to people in the age group of 18 to 70 years with a savings bank account, who give their consent to join and enable auto-debit on or before May 31 for the coverage period - June 1 to May 31 - on an annual renewal basis.The life insurance scheme will offer a renewable one year life cover of Rs.200,000 to all savings bank account holders in the age group of 18 to 50 years, covering death due to any reason, for a premium of Rs.330 per annum per subscriber.On the other hand, the pension scheme focuses on the unorganised sector and provides subscribers a fixed minimum pension of Rs.1,000, Rs.2,000, Rs.3,000, Rs.4,000 or Rs.5,000 per month starting at the age of 60 years, depending on the contribution option exercised on entering at an age between 18 and 40 years.Thus, the period of contribution by any subscriber under APY would be 20 years or more.The benefit of fixed minimum pension enjoys sovereign guarantee.While the scheme is open to bank account holders in the prescribed age group, the central government would also co-contribute 50 percent of the total contribution or Rs. 1,000 per annum, whichever is lower, for five years.The government contribution will be for those joining the scheme before Dec 31, 2015, are not members of any statutory social security scheme and are not income tax payers.It is estimated that the unorganised sector workers, which constitute 88 percent of the total labour force of 47.29 crore, as per the 66th Round of NSSO Survey of 2011-12, do not have any formal pension provision.The three schemes were simultaneously launched at 112 centres in different states and union territories attended by respective chief ministers/governors and the union ministers.

Workers under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) from P. Shanmugapuram village, Inam Subramaniapuram and Vilathikulam union have complained that they have not been paid their wages since June 2016.In a petition submitted to Collector M. Ravikumar here on Monday, the aggrieved workers said that 60 workers had been affected.They stated that when the issue was taken up with the panchayat union authorities, the workers were asked to check their bank accounts and told that wages were credited in their accounts till August.But, there was no proper response from the bank. Photo copies of Aadhaar cards of these workers had already been provided to the union office and the bank as well, they said.The workers also demanded a hike in their wages.Workers under the MGNREGS from Chockalingapuram village, Chekarakudi panchayat and Karungulam union have demanded a maximum number of 150 working days. S. Gurusamy, one among the petitioners, said agriculture was the main occupation in these villages.Since agricultural activities could not been taken up last year owing to monsoon failure, the villagers had been relying on this job guarantee scheme, they pointed out.Though a large number of workers wanted to work under this scheme, the panchayat officials were restricting the number stating that 50 to 90 workers were enough. Hence, the district administration should consider this issue seriously and initiate necessary action, Mr. Gurusamy said.Kaattu Nayakkan community people from Pudhumanai New Street sought additional drinking water tap and street lights in their area.They also demanded community certificate for the betterment of their children, who were unable to join schools.They said that though they had approached the taluk office several times for getting community certificates, the officials were demanding proper documents.MDMK cadre led by its district secretary R.S. Ramesh in a petition demanded provision of benefits such as employees provident fund and employees State insurance cover for LPG gas cylinder delivery men as per the Labour Act.

The Centres pension scheme for small traders has been notified and is being introduced on a trial basis this week, with the formal launch of the scheme likely to be done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi soon, according to Union Labour and Employment Ministry officials.On Wednesday, the ministry posted the Gazette Notification dated July 22 for the Pradhan Mantri Laghu Vyapari Maan-dhan, Yojana 2019 on its website. The scheme, which was among the campaign promises of the BJP, was one of the proposals cleared by the Cabinet at its first meeting.While the scheme would be applicable from Monday, the online portal for applicants would be rolled out in a day or two, a senior official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said on Wednesday. Applicants could, however, apply through the 3.5 lakh common service centres, which were set up for the governments other pension schemes including the one for unorganised workers.The ministry would use the time before the schemes formal unveiling to address any glitches that may come up following the soft launch, the official added. Another ministry official, who declined to be identified, said the launch could be on August 15, on the occasion of Independence Day.Under the scheme, those who are self-employed and working as shop-owners, retail traders, rice mill owners, oil mill owners, workshop owners, commission agents, real estate brokers, small hotel owners, restaurant owners and other small traders will be eligible for pension.The operations of such small traders are generally characterised by family-owned establishments, small scale of operations, labour intensive, inadequate financial aid, seasonal in nature and extensive unpaid family labour, the ministry said in its notification.Small traders between 18 and 40 years of age, having an annual turnover of less than 1.5 crore would qualify to apply for the scheme. To be eligible, the applicants should not be covered under the National Pension Scheme, Employees State Insurance Scheme and the Employees Provident Fund or be an Income Tax assessee.The scheme gives the subscribers 3,000 a month after they turn 60, once they have contributed to the scheme every month from the time of enrolment and till that age. The government would match the monthly contribution, an amount that would depend on the age at which the applicant enters the scheme. For example, an 18-year-old would have to pay 55 a month, while a 40-year-old would need to pay 200 a month.

Union Labour Minister Oscar Fernandes on Thursday launched a unified single web portal to present labour laws, and have a consolidated information of labour inspection and its enforcement.The web portal will enhance convenience of reporting, transparency in labour inspection and monitoring of labour inspections based on key performance indices and provide an effective grievance redress system hyperlinked with the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances portal, he said.To begin with, the Ministry has selected the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) organisation, the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) and the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) to join the portal.Other statutes and State governments can also join the portal subsequently, he said.The portal is being developed and maintained by the National Informatics Centre.  PTI

The Bengal government has prepared a draft tourism incentive scheme for private entrepreneurs who want to invest in the sector in the state. The incentives, for five years, would be in the form of subsidies under several heads  interest on loans, electricity duty, stamp duty and registration, purchase of vehicles and improvement of facilities, among them. The government has also divided various areas in the state in four Groups  A,B,C,D. Group A comprises the most developed areas in the state that will get the least percentage of incentives. The Group D areas are among the least developed infrastructure-wise, so they have would get the maximum incentives. (See chart) The draft was prepared by the state tourism department in consultation with the stakeholders of the industry. The draft will be discussed in the state cabinet. There were proposals for subsidies and incentives to boost the tourism sector, which has always been on the priority list of the chief minister. As the scheme offers refund of VAT and electricity duty and interest on loans and incentives in capital investments among other things, we hope it will encourage private players to launch new tourism projects in the state, said a tourism department official, who didnt want to be named. He said the benefits could be extended to the existing players in the tourism sector as well, not just fresh entrants. The categorisation has been made on the basis of the importance and potential of different areas with regard to tourism. For example, subsidies on capital investment and the refund on interest on loans will be higher if a tourism project is launched in Cooch Behar district. The subsidies and refunds will be less if the tourism project is proposed in New Town or Bidhannagar (Salt Lake), said a tourism department official. The state government has drafted the incentive scheme, keeping in mind the employment opportunities also. The entrepreneurs will get a refund of a certain percentage of the Employees State Insurance (ESI) and Employees Provident Fund if their projects give jobs to a certain number of people. The discounts will vary depending on the location of the projects and the employment opportunities created, said a source. Incentives are proposed for transporters also. Transporters form a substantial portion of the industry. The department has mooted a one-time subsidy in the form of return of the VAT that they pay for buying vehicles to ferry inbound tourists, both domestic and international. But the location where the vehicles are run determines the extent of the refund, ranging from 50 per cent to 100 per cent of the VAT, said the tourism official. Tour operators, who do not have much of infrastructure like transporters, can also enjoy a similar one-time subsidy. This would be in the form of the refund of the VAT for purchasing items like tents, boats and other equipment provided to tourists. The tourism department officials said investors who intended to set up mega projects would be offered additional packages. Apart from the specific incentives and discounts offered for the stakeholders, the draft has a provision that talks of providing extra benefits for mega projects. The government might consider granting a special package of incentives if a project has a huge size in terms of investment and employment opportunities and is eco-friendly, said the official. Krishnendu Choudhury, the state tourism minister, said the incentives were being considered as the government had given thrust to tourism growth. So far, there has been no proper scheme to attract investors to the tourism sector. Since the Trinamul Congress government has been formed in the state, the chief minister has been insisting on development of tourism. The new scheme has been planned after consultations with stakeholders of the industry and experts. We feel it has attractive provisions for new investors. Some more proposals are being considered and they will be incorporated in the draft. Once the scheme is approved, we will give enough publicity for it across India and abroad, said the minister. The tourism stakeholders have welcomed the governments move to offer the subsidies. We have held elaborate discussions with government officials and are awaiting a formal notification of the incentive scheme. It would encourage many of us to make investments and expand the scope of tourism throughout Bengal, said Tapas Roy, the general secretary of the Eastern Himalaya Travel and Tour Operators Association.

In 2016, your focus should be on providing greater transparency in governance. We are tired of corruption and red tape in government offices. And please bring back the black money from abroad. In 2016, your focus should be on providing greater transparency in governance. We are tired of corruption and red tape in government offices. And please bring back the black money from abroad.Dear Prime Minister,I am a 35-year-old schoolteacher in Varanasi. Teaching runs in my family. My mother, Asha Singh, runs two schools affiliated with the CBSE. I hold a masters degree in computer science and teach computers and mathematics in my mothers schools. I live with my entire family  my parents, my wife and two children, my younger brother and his wife  in the Lanka area of the city. I have also been a BJP worker since 2011.2015 ended sadly for me. My wife, Shweta, had given birth to twins in November  a girl and a boy  but unfortunately, the girl did not survive the premature delivery. But professionally, the year was more successful. There was 30 per cent higher enrolment in both the schools. Moreover, we achieved a 100 per cent pass percentage in Classes X and XII.However, I have one regret. For the past two years, I have been trying to open a school for children from rural areas but I have not been able to acquire the required land at a suitable location and at an affordable price.2015 was a good year for Varanasi as a whole. This is your constituency, Mr Prime Minister, and in 2015, we were showered with gifts. More underground electricity cables are being laid and a new ring road is being constructed. You inaugurated a trauma centre at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU), which will benefit the people of eastern UP. Schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Scheme have also provided great economic security to everyone.However, much work remains to be done. Varanasi is gasping for clean air. Most two-wheeler drivers wear helmets to protect themselves more from the dust and pollution than from injuries. Repeated digging up of roads by different government departments has left them in a poor condition. This has also resulted in greater pollution. The city has no arrangement for the disposal of domestic waste. A city so rich in religious and cultural heritage would surely have been maintained better had it been in some other country.As a BJP worker, my major worry at the start of 2016 is how well the party prepares for the assembly elections of 2017. I am worried that the aggressive statements of the BJPs sister organisations on controversial issue like the Ram Mandir and Valentines Day can hurt the partys poll prospects. These are not the issues for which people voted in the BJP in 2014. Instead, they wanted development and economic growth as it has taken place in Gujarat.I am hoping, Mr Prime Minister, that development projects launched in the past year or so will take shape in 2016. For instance, villages adopted by MPs under the Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana could become a success for the BJP to highlight in the state assembly elections. You should review the utilisation of funds by BJP MPs and MLAs.The construction of highways and the ring road as well as the cleaning of the Ganga should also become a reality. Otherwise, opposition parties will make it a poll issue. Theyll say the PM has failed to implement schemes in his own constituency. If the entire city could be cleaned in a week for the Japanese PMs visit, why cant it be kept clean otherwise?In 2016, I hope to open that school in a rural area. I want my father to add a luxury bus and car to his taxi business. In this regard, if the authorities allowed the introduction of pre-paid taxis in Varanasi, like it is the case in Delhi, it will help people like my father who are in the travel trade. I would also request the Union Minister of State for Railways Manoj Sinha, an MP from the adjoining constituency of Ghazipur, to do something about the brokers who monopolise the tatkal railway tickets.I would also request you to ensure the development of cycle tracks in all major cities, including Varanasi. This will be environmentally friendly. I think the government should also promote solar energy  it will decrease the use of diesel-powered generators, which add to pollution.Also, the governments welfare schemes need to be targeted better. Moreover, notwithstanding such measures, child labour and beggary are still commonplace. They paint a very poor picture of India especially when they prevail in a tourist destination like Varanasi. With regard to health concerns, why dont you establish an All-India Institute of Medical Sciences in Varanasi so that the people of eastern UP can benefit from better and cheaper medical facilities?During the 2014 election campaign, you had highlighted the issue of youth migration out of UP to states like Gujarat and Maharashtra in search of jobs. Now, with your Make in India campaign, why not encourage IT and manufacturing activity in eastern UP?In 2016, your focus should be on providing greater transparency in governance. We are tired of corruption and red tape in government offices. And please bring back the black money from abroad.From VaranasiSeries concludedFor all the latest Opinion News, download Indian Express App

Hours after Congress president Sonia Gandhi attacked the government for its false promises on transparency, the Union Cabinet met on Wednesday evening to approve an amendment that would effectively dilute the scope of the Whistle Blowers Protection Act of 2011. The amendment incorporates necessary provisions to keep issues of national security out of its purview.Anti-corruption activists have argued that the new provisions could weaken the fight against corruption in key sectors like defence. In the past, several dubious deals like the Bofors, Scorpene, Tatra truck and AgustaWestland scams have been exposed by whistle blowers.Ms. Gandhi attacked the government in the Lok sabha for not notifying the Bill despite it getting the President's assent last year. The Bill was passed by Lok Sabha, in December 2011 and the Rajya Sabha had passed it on 21 February last year and it received the President's assent on May 9.During the last days of UPA rule, the BJP had proposed certain amendments to the Bill when it came up for consideration and passage in the Rajya Sabha. One was to bar whistleblowers from seeking information on national security.New schemesThe Union Cabinet also gave approval to three major social security initiatives that will be launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 9. The schemes  the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and the Atal Pension Yojana (APY) will be launched in Kolkata where Assembly elections are due next year.An official release said the decision on APY will benefit 2 crore subscribers in the first year, and that on the PMSBY and the PMJJBY will provide affordable personal accident and life cover to a vast population.These initiatives, announced in the governments budget, are aimed at providing a universal social security net that will be linked to individual user's bank accounts.The PMSBY will offer a renewable one-year accidental death-cum-disability cover of Rs. 2 lakh for partial/permanent disability to all savings bank account holders in the age group of 18-70 years for a premium of Rs. 12 per annum per subscriber.The PMJJBY on the other hand will offer a renewable one year life cover of Rs. 2 lakh to all savings bank account holders in the age group of 18-50 years, covering death due to any reason, for a premium of Rs. 330 per annum per subscriber.Incorporates provisions to keep issues of national security out of its purview

B.S. Yeddyurappa, Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, laid the foundation stone for the construction of the hospital of Employees State Insurance Corporation(ESIC) near Ragigudda here on Sunday.The ESIC hospital here will have a 100-bed capacity and will be constructed at an estimated Rs. 80 crore.The Department of Revenue has allotted five acres of land for the purpose. As many as 66,183 families that come under the purview of ESIC in Shivamogga district will be benefited from the hospital.Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Yeddyurappa called upon owners of the small business units and industries to bring their employees under the purview of ESIC.Addressing the gathering, B.Y. Raghavendra, Shivamogga MP, said that the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Mandhan Scheme, a pension scheme announced in the Central budget for 2019-20, was a boon for the unorganised sector.S. Rudre Gowda, MLC, said the Visvesvaraya Iron and Steel Plant (VISP), a public sector undertaking in Bhadravathi, should be revived by sanctioning a captive mine for the unit at the earliest.

Financial planners agree that these seven decisions can prove profitable in the new yearAt the beginning of 2015, many pundits had estimated that equities will deliver roughly 15% returns during the year. Instead, the Sensex declined around 6%. If you were investing for 1-2 years, these statistics would be worrisome. However, if your investment horizon is longer, say 5-6 years, 2015 would have been a great year during which you stocked up on quality stocks (or funds that invested in them) at low prices. What should investors do in 2016? Firstly, they should continue to save and invest for their goals and not be deterred by the noise about returns. More importantly, they should not lose sight of their asset allocation. However, this is generic advice for all times. We have drawn up a list of smart things to do with your money in 2016. We also reached out to 50 financial planners to know what they thought of our suggestions. We are sure that our suggestions will prove rewarding in the new year.Avail of additional `50,000 tax deduction.Up to `50,000 invested in the NPS under the new Section 80CCD (1b) gets additional tax deduction, over and above the `1.5 lakh investment limit under Section 80C. In the 30% tax bracket, an investor can shave off `15,000 from his tax liability. This would bring down the effective investment to only `35,000 and push up the returns for the investor. If the NPS fund you invest in earns 8% compounded returns over the next 15 years, the effective return would be 10%. Some financial planners say investing in the NPS is not a good idea as equity funds can give better returns than NPS, where there's a 50% cap on equity exposure. Even though investments in equity funds are not eligible for tax deduction, their potential to give superior returns more than makes up for it. The other problem with NPS is the rules for investing the corpus on maturity. After 60, at least 40% of the corpus has to be put in an annuity for monthly pension. Withdrawals are taxable and the pension from annuity is taxed at normal rate. The pension will be a mix of principal and interest, but the entire amount will be taxed.You get cash back and it's safe.With e-wallets expected to play a key role, you can start using these for discounts, cashbacks and other incentives. Players like Paytm, PayU and Mobikwik are already offering significant cashbacks.Some financial planners believe that ease of online transaction and heavy discounting have led to a rise in discretionary expenses. "We have seen budgets for food and clothing increase two-fold in two years," says Priya Sunder, Director, PeakAlpha. However, there are incentives even for essential household expenses like grocery, Internet, DTH and mobile bills. Other categories include taxi rides, movie tickets, online shopping, food orders, hotel bookings, and flight, train and bus tickets. There are rewards for referring others as well.The walletsin which you can put in `10-10,000also offer security. The sites maintain the same security level as that for any other banking transaction and you can limit your loss by putting less money in the account. The limitation is that they are semi-closedyou can transact only online on limited sites.Lower charges lead to higher returns.Investors stand to gain from direct plans of mutual funds since lower charges translate to higher returns. The difference in returns is more pronounced for equity funds. In debt funds, the expense ratio of regular plans is not too high, so the difference is lower. In liquid funds, the expense ratio is very low, so the difference is wafer thin. In the three years since these were launched, the average large-cap diversified fund has given 15.39% annualised returns, but the average direct plan has given 16.42%. Before you switch, however, check if you have crossed the minimum tenure set by the taxman. In equity and balanced funds, shift after completing a year or the 15% tax on gains will wipe out the gain. In debt funds, debt-oriented hybrid funds and gold funds, wait for 3 years or gains will be added to your income and taxed at marginal rate. Even after 3 years, gains will be taxed at 20% with indexation benefit.These are more tax-efficient.Fixed deposits (FDs) are safe, but also tax-inefficient. Short-term debt funds can be a better alternative. Though the returns generated from short-term debt funds are similar to interest you earn on FDs, the tax benefits mean that the actual return from debt funds is higher if you hold them for more than 3 years.In a debt fund, the long-term capital gains are taxed at 20% after indexation, while short-term capital gains are added to your income and taxed at the rate applicable to you. This is a game changer for those in the 30% tax bracket. Instead of shelling out 30% tax on interest earned on a fixed deposit, the tax rate is 20%, which is further reduced by indexation. Debt funds also help in deferring the tax. In case of FDs, you are taxed on the interest every year, whereas in debt MFs, tax is payable only when you sell.Gold bonds offer 2.75% interest and don't levy any charge.Launched in November 2015, gold bonds are linked to the price of gold and offer 2.75% interest. If we assume that gold prices will rise by 5%, the bonds will yield an annualised return of 7.75%. It's time to get rid of your gold ETFs as well. You pay 1% on the fund per year, but if you sell and put the proceeds in gold bonds, you earn 2.75%, and the net gain is 3.75%. However, take note of the tax implications and don't forget that gold bonds are less liquid than ETFs. They have a tenure of 8 years with an exit option after the fifth. Purchases have to be made within the stipulated time and there is also a 500 g buying restriction per fiscal.If you have a daughter below 10 years, this is the best debt option for you.Launched in January 2015, the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana (SSY) is the best category to invest in if your daughter is below 10 years old. It offers a higher interest rate than PPF.While the PPF offers 25 basis points higher than the yield of 10-year government bonds, the SSY will offer 75 basis points higher than these bonds for the previous year. Compared with FDs, the SSY not only provides higher rates (at present), but also has better tax benefits. As in the PPF, you can avail of tax benefits under the Section 80C for SSY too. So, investments up to `1.5 lakh will be exempt from tax in a financial year.However, the scheme lacks liquidity. While the fixed deposit has a lockin period of five years and the PPF has a lock-in period of 15 years, you have to stay invested in the SSY till you child turns 21. Premature withdrawals are only allowed after the girl turns 18.Buy social security schemes for your maid, driver, watchman, sweeper, etc.Spread some happiness and begin the new year with a good deed. Help your household staff to open a Jan Dhan account and introduce them to social security schemes such as the Atal Pension Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and the Pra-dhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana. They can get `2 lakh accidental insurance for as little as `12 a year, and a term cover of `2 lakh for `330 a year.However, it will require more than just convincing them to invest in these schemes. You might have to step in and make the first investment. It will cost you less than `2,000. Then it becomes easier to convince them to continue.

CM Raghubar Das addresses the media in Ranchi on WednesdayDownload The Times of India News App for Latest CityMake sense of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and results on May 23 with TOI. Follow us to track latest news, live updates, news analysis and cutting-edge data analytics. Track live election results , the big trends and fastest updates on counting day with India's largest news network.Ranchi: Chief minister Raghubar Das on Wednesday said the Jharkhand government is preparing for simultaneous statewide rollout of Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan , a pension scheme for workers of the unorganised sector that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to launch on March 5. The flagship pension scheme was announced in the interim budget earlier this month.We will host special programmes in Namkum (Ranchi) and Godda to formally kick off the Centres flagship pension scheme. It is an important scheme for a state like Jharkhand where 95% of its workforce is engaged in unorganised sector. A three-day registration camps will be held in district, block and urban local body levels to assist beneficiaries to enrol in the scheme, Das told media persons at Project Building here on Wednesday.Das also announced that beneficiaries can enrol themselves for the scheme free-of-cost at Pragya Kendras (Common Services Centre) across the state after the lunch break. The state government will bear the service fee of Rs 30 levied for availing services at Pragya Kendras, Das added.Under this pension scheme, devised on contributory mode, anyone between the age of 18 and 40 years and having a monthly income of less than Rs 15,000 will be eligible for a monthly pension of Rs 3,000 on attaining 60 years of age. A beneficiary has to make a monthly contribution between Rs 55 and Rs 200, depending on the age, and an equal contribution will be deposited by the government. However, any individual covered under any existing pension plans and products such as the New Pension Scheme, Employees State Insurance Corporation scheme or Employees Provident Fund Organisation will not be eligible.

A one-day training programme on Labour Laws with recent amendments will be held at SPC Bhawan between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. on March 26.Organised by the Salem Productivity Council, the programme will explain on the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952, The Employees State Insurance Act, 1948, The Employees Compensation Act, 1923, The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, Minimum Wages Act, 1948 and latest amendments approved by the Parliament for the above acts. All legal compliance executives, HR officers, HR assistants, faculty of management studies, law and management students can participate.V. Chandrasekaran, Industrial law and Labour law practitioner, will be the resource person. For details, contact C.S. Ramanigopal, Programme Coordinator, before March 24 at 93602-10428.

Jaitley unveils social security schemesNew Delhi : Feb 28, 2015, DHNS: 23:50 ISTThe Modi government on Thursday announced three social security schemes with a focus on common and vulnerable citizens.The three social security schemesPradhan Mantri Suraksha Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojanawould utilise the Jan Dhan platform to identify beneficiaries and connect with them.Encouraged by the success of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, I propose to work towards creating a universal social security system for all Indians, specially the poor and the under-privileged.The soon-to-be-launched Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana will cover accidental death risk of Rs 2 lakh for a premium of just Rs 12 per year, said Finance Minister Arun Jaitley while presenting the budget of 2015-16.The Atal Pension Yojana will provide a defined pension, depending on the contribution, and its period. To encourage people to join this scheme, the government will contribute 50 percent of the beneficiaries premium, limited to Rs 1,000 each year, for five years in the new accounts opened before December 31, 2015.The third new scheme, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, would cover natural as well as accidental death risk of Rs 2 lakh. The premium would be Rs 330 per year, or less than one rupee per day for the age group 18-50.In sum, these social security schemes reflect our commitment to utilise the Jan Dhan platform to ensure that no Indian citizen will have to worry about illness, accidents, or penury in old age, Arun Jaitley said.

Launching Pradhan Mantri Jivan Jyoti Bima Yojna,Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojna & atal pension yojna frm Gaya BHR pic.twitter.com/LD2ap8ZGAA  Giriraj Singh (@girirajsinghbjp) May 9, 2015Union Minister @arunjaitley CM @Dev_Fadnavis & other Ministers at the launch of #SocialSecurityForAll schemes #Mumbai pic.twitter.com/eEnHTUiUxg  CMO Maharashtra (@CMOMaharashtra) May 9, 2015KOLKATA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched three ambitious social security schemes , relating to the insurance and pension sector and intended at widening the process of financial inclusion.On his first visit to West Bengal after taking over as Prime Minister, he kickstarted the "Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana" (accident insurance), "Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Yojana" (life insurance) and "Atal Pension Yojana" at a programme in Nazrul Manch here.West Bengal governor KN Tripathi, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, and Union ministers Jayant Sinha and Babul Supriyo attended the function where Modi inaugurated a plaque by pressing a remote button to launch the schemes.An audio visual film was then shown highlighting salient features of the three schemes. The Prime Minister then handed out certificates to the first three subscribers  including two women.The Jan Suraksha Yojana, under which the schemes were launched countrywide, is expected to reduce the number of zero balance bank accounts created under the Jan-Dhan Yojana. The schemes target the poor and unorganized sector who are neither covered by any form of insurance nor get pension.Under the accident insurance scheme, a person will be provided cover of Rs 200,000 for an annual premium of Rs 12. The cover is for accidental death or permanent total disability.The scheme will be available to people in the age group of 18 to 70 years with a savings bank account, who give their consent to join and enable auto-debit on or before May 31 for the coverage period  June 1 to May 31  on an annual renewal basis.The life insurance scheme will offer a renewable one year life cover of Rs 200,000 to all savings bank account holders in the age group of 18 to 50 years, covering death due to any reason, for a premium of Rs 330 per annum per subscriber.On the other hand, the pension scheme focuses on the unorganized sector and provides subscribers a fixed minimum pension of Rs 1,000, Rs 2,000, Rs 3,000, Rs 4,000 or Rs 5,000 per month starting at the age of 60 years, depending on the contribution option exercised on entering at an age between 18 and 40 years.Thus, the period of contribution by any subscriber under APY would be 20 years or more.The benefit of fixed minimum pension enjoys sovereign guarantee.While the scheme is open to bank account holders in the prescribed age group, the central government would also co-contribute 50 percent of the total contribution or Rs 1,000 per annum, whichever is lower, for five years.The government contribution will be for those joining the scheme before December 31, 2015, are not members of any statutory social security scheme and are not income tax payers.It is estimated that the unorganised sector workers, which constitute 88 percent of the total labour force of 47.29 crore, as per the 66th Round of NSSO Survey of 2011-12, do not have any formal pension provision.The three schemes were simultaneously launched at 112 centres in different states and union territories attended by respective chief ministers/governors and the union ministers.

By glossing over the positives in the three-year rule of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, our political adversaries, especially the Congress party, are trying to project a false narrative.When the NDA took over the reins from the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance in 2014, it had to overcome all-round despondency after scam-ridden UPA rule. Now, there is an all-round, positive image for India and the NDA leadership has delivered on its promise of clean, responsive and transparent governance.A global bright spotThe economy which was almost in a shambles, is now estimated to grow at 7.5% this fiscal. India is being hailed as the bright spot by the International Monetary Fund and other international bodies amid global gloom.The Prime Minister believes that development would be incomplete without the poor benefiting from economic growth. With his stress on reform, perform and transform, people feel that he is the biggest transformer.The 7.5% growth projections for this fiscal clearly indicate that economic resilience is due to efficient management. Fiscal prudence has been the watchword of this government. The golden indicators of the economy show that fiscal deficit is under control; the current account deficit is down to 0.7% from 4% in 2014; inflation is at a low of 4% as against a high of 11% in 2014; foreign direct investment inflows have touched $62.3 billion, and Indias foreign exchange reserves have touched a new high of $379 billion for the week ended May 19.The introduction of the landmark GST regime from July 1 is set to improve the economy further. Another important reform is the abolition of the Foreign Investment Promotion Board.The Bankruptcy and Insolvency Code, which helps in the quick resolution of insolvency cases, is one of the governments biggest reforms. As part of governance reforms, the share of States from the divisible pool of taxes has been increased to 42%.The other big reform has been the enactment of Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016.On the foreign policy front, the Prime Ministers pro-active engagement with world leaders has ensured widespread backing for Indias claim for UN Security Council membership.The Prime Minister has made it clear that Gaon, Garib, Kisan, Mazdoor, Mahila, Yuva form the core of the NDAs people-centric policies and schemes have been formulated for their uplift. Agriculture has been accorded highest priority and the goal is to eventually double the income of farmers.Credit facility to agriculture has been increased to a whopping Rs. 10 lakh crore  this will go a long way in preventing farmers from falling prey to usurious money lenders.Another major pro-farmer scheme has been the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, which covers all food grains and all risks in the crop cycle. With an outlay of Rs. 50,000 crore, the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana seeks to provide water to every field (Har Khet ko Pani) in five years. The highest ever expenditure of Rs. 51,902 crore was made in 2016-17 under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).There is also the Blue Revolution to ensure economic prosperity for fishermen and nutritional security where integrated development and management of fisheries, with an outlay of Rs. 3,000 crore, has been envisaged for five years.The NDA government had to rework tax agreements with some countries. The series of measures to unearth black money include constituting a Special Investigation Team to announcing the successful Income Declaration Scheme (IDS). With the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, the government has blocked a key route to generate and hold black money.Finally, the game-changing invalidation of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 notes has dealt a major blow to the twin menaces of black money and corruption, which became all too pervasive during the UPA regime.The entire amount of black money has come into the banking system through demonetisation and every rupee is being verified whether it is black or white. Post-demonetisation, 91 lakh people have been added to the income tax net. There has also been unprecedented growth in digital payments.This government has ushered in an infectious sense of honesty, accountability and transparency in the bureaucracy. The biggest example of this is the transparent auctioning of coal blocks and spectrum. Auctioning of 82 blocks over the life of the lease period would net Rs. 3.94 lakh crore. Compare this with the astronomical loss of Rs. 1,86,000 crore in the coal blocks allocations, as the Comptroller and Auditor General computed it, under the UPA dispensation.There has also been decisiveness in resolving the four-decade old One Rank One Pension for ex-servicemen and the long-pending Land Boundary Agreement with Bangladesh.I move back to welfare for the needy. Under Jan Dhan Yojana, a record 28.52 crore bank accounts were opened. Another 13 crore people have availed social security cover at nominal rates under Jan Suraksha. Capital of Rs. 3.17 lakh crore as collateral-free loans has been provided to 7.45 crore small entrepreneurs under the Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency Ltd (MUDRA) scheme.Other pro-poor initiatives include Atal Pension Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Jan Suraksha Yojana benefiting 16 crore people.After the Prime Ministers appeal, about 1.2 people have surrendered their LPG subsidy, which is being given to the poor under Ujjwala Yojana.As many as 224 schemes have been brought under the Direct Benefit Transfer platform and over Rs. 1.92 lakh crore transferred to 32 crore beneficiaries, resulting in a saving of Rs. 49,560 crore. Rural development, infrastructure and housing have been given a huge thrust through Housing for All; rural electrification (about 13,432 of 18,456 un-electrified villages have been electrified) and rural connectivity (1.20 lakh km of rural roads constructed in last three years) are others.Several schemes to empower women have been successfully implemented which include Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao (BBBP), Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana (over one crore accounts opened), Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act ( increasing maternity leave to 26 weeks) and Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan (safe pregnancy). After BBBP, there has been a remarkable improvement in the child sex ratio in Haryana  950 girls to 1,000 boys.Another important reform-driven outcome has been the cancellation of 23 million fake ration cards following Aadhar-linked public distribution in the States. With the mass movement of Swachh Bharat, 40 million toilets have been built and 1,94,000 villages have become open defecation free.The NDA Government can definitely look back with satisfaction on its three-year rule.M. Venkaiah Naidu is Union Minister for Urban Development and Information & Broadcasting

New Delhi, Aug. 16 (PTI): The government today said it had taken a series of steps to improve ease of doing business, including a timeline for clearing applications, de-licensing the manufacturing of some defence products and introducing an online project for single-window clearance.The emphasis has been on the simplification and rationalisation of existing rules and introduction of information technology to make governance more efficient, simple and user-friendly, the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) said.The e-Biz project will create an investor-centric hub-and-spoke based online single-window model to provide clearances and file compliances, the DIPP said.This project will result in radical improvements in the ease of doing business by reducing time, efforts and costs taken in obtaining clearances and ensuring compliances. Integration with central government services is being done on the highest priority, the DIPP said.To improve the regulatory business environment, all departments and state governments have been requested to take measures on a priority basis such as mandatory filing of all returns online through a unified form.Further, no inspection should be undertaken without the approval of the head of the departments.For all non-risk, non-hazardous businesses, a system of self-certification should be introduced.Besides, the government has introduced online registration of employers with the Employees Provident Fund Organisation and the Employees State Insurance Corporation.The government has done away with the requirement of affidavit from the applicants in the defence industry.Further, a maximum timeline of 12 weeks has been finalised by the ministry of home affairs to grant security clearances to industrial licence applications.Partial start of production will be treated as production of all items included in the licence, a move which will ease the difficulties faced by the entrepreneurs in repeatedly coming to the administrative ministries for licence extension.The list for defence products for industrial licence has been issued in which a large number of components and castings/forgings have been excluded.

C. Sasidharan, who was the driving force behind the district's telecommunication development, retired from service as the General Manager of Pathanamthitta Secondary Switching Area of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited on Tuesday.Extending telecommunication facility to the remote forest fringes of Kokkathode, Moozhiyar and Gavi in the district, and bringing Pulmedu, Karimala, Nilackal and other parts of Sabarimala forests under the BSNL network were among the achievements of Mr. Sasidharan.The district, which had just 22,000 land phone connections in 1995, now has over two lakh land phone lines, 25,000 wireless phone connections and as many as four lakh cellular phone connections.Perhaps, no other district in the State has been so systematic and cost-effective in the conduct of BSNL fairs and adalats' as this district. The company organised 28 fairs, successfully marketing its various products in different parts of the district during the past six months alone. Mr. Sasidharan was very particular in conducting such fairs and adalats on a weekly basis.Hailing from Thiruvalla, Mr. Sasidharan maintained personal relationships with the employees in his 37 years of service. Perhaps, Pathanamthitta is the only district in the State that has brought all casual workers attached to the BSNL under the Employees Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance Scheme, thanks to Mr. Sasidharan.His wife, Leela S, is Deputy General Manager (HR & Planning) at the same office.According to highly placed BSNL sources, Mr. Sasidharan's contribution to setting up various electronic phone exchanges in the State, from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram, was immense.

A two-day customer outreach programme led by the State Level Bankers Committee, Union Territory of Puducherry, in co-ordination with all the banks in the city, began here on Tuesday.The initiative is in line with the directive of Ministry of Finance, Department of Financial Services, to provide access to credit for retail, agriculture, vehicle, home, MSME, education and personal loans in order to cash in on the festive season.Stalls have been set up by the banks at the JIPMER auditorium to extend various credit facilities. The services range across bank account opening (Savings Bank account and BSBD account), Aadhaar seeding and authentication with consent of the account-holder, mobile seeding, enrolment for PMJJBY, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.Bank personnel are also assisting visitors to download and use the and BHIM app on mobiles.A NABARD pavilion is providing awareness and facilitation regarding agricultural credit, credit through SHG etc., and its various other schemes while the SIDBI stall has information regarding MSME products.INDSETI (Indian Bank Self Employment Training Institute) has set up a stall to provide information regarding training programmes and has displayed products manufactured by trainees of the institute while a Financial Literacy and Credit Counselling centre is rendering counselling services.The inaugural function was attended by K.S. Sudhakara Rao, General Manager, MSME, Indian Bank, Corporate Office, B. Veeraraghavan, convenor-SLBC, Indian Bank, R. Balaji, RM, SBI, Hari Madhu, CRM, IOB, S. Rajesh, RM, Canara Bank, Pulla Rao, RM, Union Bank of India, Uma Gurumurthy, DDM, NABARD, Margret Laetitia, chairperson, PBGB, V. Jothi, AGM, Bank of India, Edwin Paul, AGM, UCO Bank and A. Udayakumar, LDM, Puducherry.

The governments social security schemes are aimed at ensuring that all citizens have a bank account, and the deserving get the benefits, according to Reserve Bank of India representative Rajshekhar.Speaking at a meeting of bank officers here on Friday, Mr. Rajshekhar said that the Atal Pension Yojana (APY), Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) had been launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that every individual is provided financial security at a very nominal premium.Under the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana, banks have opened more than 17 crore accounts across the nation, and the officers concerned should make sustained efforts to create awareness about the scheme and open account of every citizen in their respective areas.The officers should conduct separate camps for creating awareness about Jan-Dhan yojana in rural areas of the district.Citizens who already have bank accounts under the said yojana should encourage others also to have one, he added.Meetings more oftenDistrict Lead Bank Manager Srinivas informed the meeting that the representatives of the private banks, LIC and nationalised banks attended the meeting to get necessary information, and in future such meetings would be held at regular intervals to ensure banks take active part to make the benefits of government schemes reach needy people.Under the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana, banks have opened more than 17 crore accounts across the nation

New Delhi, May 26, 2016, PTI: 10:48 ISTTop BJP leaders led by the party chief Amit Shah today highlighted the "achievements" of Narendra Modi government during its two years in office, claiming they included empowerment of the poor, infrastructure growth and youth-led devlopment.Top echelon of the government including Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, Rail Minister Suresh Prabhu, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar and Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu, besides Shah, were present as Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman made a presentation to highlight its performance at an interaction with senior editors from various media houses here.The presentation also claimed that the common man has "benefited" due to "low inflation" and "stable price" regime and India has emerged as a "bright spot" in the world with high growth rate of 7.6 per cent.In the power-point presentation on a whole range of economic and social issues, BJP claimed that the nation is "transforming" and moving ahead in all spheres."IMF calls India a bright spot," according to the presentation. The country has become the highest recipient of foreign direct investment and insurance sector alone has attracted Rs 9,000 crore froam abroad, it said.Besides, Sitharaman said, the government has taken various initiatives including Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, and Deen Dyal Upadhyay Antyodaya Yojana for empowering poor.Many other social security schemes have also been announced by the government which provide insurance at affordable premium for the poor.As per the presentation, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) has been subscribed by 2.96 crore, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) by 9.43 crore and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) 26 lakh since its launch.Pradhan Mantri Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency (MUDRA) Yojana has benefited 3.48 beneficiaries by providing collateral free loans to small entrepreneurs worth Rs 1.37 lakh crore.Direct Benefit Transfer has also benefited the poor as it has eliminated leakage, as per the presentation.Subsidies and benefits of 59 schemes being transferred thorough DBT and government has been able to save about Rs 36,000 crore.On infrastructure development, the presentation said 6029 km of highways were constructed in 2015-16 and 7,108 villages are electrified. India has become the world's clean energy capital, as per the presentation.With regard to initiatives in the farm sector, the government has launched many schemes including Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana and E-platform for National Agriculture Market to help farmers fetch the best price for their produce.On black money, it said, many steps have been taken including passage of Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015.Besides, enhanced enforcement measures resulted in unearthing of tax evasion of approximately Rs 50,000 crore of indirect taxes and undisclosed income of Rs 21,000 crore and prosecutions launched in 1,466 cases.With emphasis on youth employment, the government has provided training to 19.55 lakh under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana.The government has been able to pass various key legislations and economic reforms including Insolvent and Bankruptcy Code.

For the past three and half years, the NDA government has had a battle on its hands when it came to providing an enabling ecosystem for adequate job creation.The governments own data showed that job creation in the formal sector was slowest in almost a decade, but it has said that it felt the ground reality on jobs was not being properly captured as the existing system takes into account only the formal sector.However, this situation could change soon. Speaking to The Hindu , commerce and industry minister Suresh Prabhu said all the economic activity in India, including in the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) and informal sectors, will soon get properly captured. He said this was in line with international practices.Incidentally, on the directions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a task force was set up in May this year under the chairmanship of the then Vice Chairman of NITI Aayog, Arvind Panagariya.Data captureThe panels terms of reference included assessing the existing data systems and sources that provide information on jobs and job creation and then identifying alternate sources that could provide such data. The terms also included recommending mechanisms for capturing information on jobs and job creation on a regular basis for both the informal and formal sectors.The Task Force on Improving Employment Data, which had sought comments from stakeholders by July 23 on its draft report, will by September 2018 submit its final report, the current Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog, Rajiv Kumar said.Among the main recommendations could be a change in the definition of employment/workers as well as ways to include and measure employment in the informal sector as well, he indicated.According to the draft report, there is no fixed definition of formal workers currently in India.It said all definitions were highly restrictive, and exclude many workers who have decent and steady jobs but either do not work in large enough enterprises or do not have written contracts. The task force said it was desirable to adopt a new, more pragmatic definition of formal workers.The plan now is to include workers covered the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (or other similar insurance), Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provision Act, 1952 (or other similar social security scheme), workers having coverage under private insurance or pension schemes or provident funds as well as workers subject to tax deduction at source on their income through submission of Form 16 or similar Income Tax form.The panel had identified the Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency (MUDRA) scheme, which provides small, unsecured loans to enterprises, as an important source of job creation.According to a report by the SKOCH Group on September 6, the MUDRA scheme had led to a total of 54,479,763 jobs being generated in just over two years. These included 37,753,217 direct jobs and 16,726,545 indirect jobs.

The subscriber base for two Union government social security schemes in the district has crossed the 2.69-lakh mark, but there are no takers for Atal Pension Yojana (APY).The Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Yojana (PMJJY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) were launched in May. The PBSBY is more popular as it provides for Rs. 2 lakh accidental insurance cover at Rs. 12 an annum, while the PMSBY provides life insurance cover for Rs. 2 lakh at Rs. 330 an annum.Of the two policies, 1,72,870 people have opted for PMSBY while 96,992 people have subscribed for PMJJY as on May 31. However, there were only 89 subscribers for APY.Though meant to extend insurance cover to people below the poverty line and those in the unorganised sector, the schemes are open to all. But the APY, which is supposed to provide financial security in the post retirement life for people in the unorganised sector, is proving to be a damp squib. The scheme is open to people in the age group of 18 to 40 and they will pay premium till the age of 40. However, it is only on attaining the age of 60 that the subscriber will receive pension ranging between Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 5,000 depending on the premium paid.Senior officials in banks say it is difficult to market the scheme as people scoff at the value of Rs. 5,000 more than 20 years down the line and hence give it thumbs down. Among the banks that are on the forefront in selling the two insurance products include Kaveri Grameena Bank with 58,355 policies, State Bank of Mysore with 44,775, Canara Bank with 39,380, Vijaya Bank with 27, 465, Indian Overseas Bank with 26,490, and State Bank of India with 23,723 policies.

Mayawati addresses mediapersons in Lucknow on Sunday. (Source: Express photo by Pramod Adhikari)BSP chief Mayawati on Sunday said Uttar Pradesh MoS Ram Murti Verma, who is an accused in the murder of a Shahjahanpur-based journalist, should have been arrested the day he was booked in the case.Speaking to mediapersons at the BSP state headquarters in Lucknow, Mayawati said heinous crimes are taking place in all the 75 districts of the state every day. Two Dalits were murdered in Allahabad. A girl was set on fire in Fatehpur. Mediapersons exposing the bad deeds of this government are also not safe. The incidents of Shahjahanpur and Kanpur are the latest examples, she said.Verma should be arrested, rather he should have been arrested the same day he was booked, she added.Describing the first year of the Modi government as a failure and the three year tenure of Akhilesh Yadav in UP as jungleraaj, Mayawati alleged that while NDA was centred in the Prime Ministers Office, the SP regime was working for only one family and one caste.Targetting the BJP, she said, The first year of Modi government has been very bad The BJP and its associate groups are raising the Ram Temple issue in Ayodhya to divert peoples attention from the governments failures, even when the matter is pending in court.The former CM said that while her party does not oppose the programmes on the International Yoga Day on June 21, but BJP and its associate groups attempt to play the game of communalism through this function was condemnable.Ban on the entry of non-Hindus inside the Somnath temple in Gujarat is also not appropriate for communal harmony Incidents of violence against Muslims and Christians have increased, causing insecurity among them she added.Modi says it is his achievement that the world has started to see Indians with respect, but it is not clear which people he is talking about. If there is really something to be proud of, why cant the people feel the same, she asked.Taking a dig at Modi and Akhilesh going on foreign trips, Mayawati said, There seems to be a race between the PM and the UP CM about undertaking the most number of foreign tours While the BJP government is celebrating the completion of one year by spending millions, the SP government has concentrated all funds meant for public interest to CMs publicity.The government is publicising Pradhanmantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhanmantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana as public welfare schemes and crores of people suffering from poverty, unemployment and inflation are being sold the dream of good days, she added while claiming that the Centre was not ready to invest a single rupee in these schemes.Mayawati further alleged that while the Centre claims that it is supporting the states, its approach towards non-BJP states was that of non-cooperation. The Centre is not compensating the states for the revenue loss due to Goods and Services Tax, has decreased its share in schemes and has ignored the tradition of taking states into confidence before appointing governors It also did not invite the CMs of northeastern states at a function for the border pact with Bangladesh, she said.For all the latest Lucknow News, download Indian Express App

The Ministry of Railways has exposed a scam where labourers who were engaged by private contractors to execute projects across the country were denied of their rightful pay under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948, and other dues prescribed under the labour laws.The Railways engage private contractors to execute projects worth several thousands of crores of rupees across the country. These contractors employ a large number of labourers, both skilled and unskilled, to carry out the works that include construction of bridges, buildings, gauge conversion projects and maintenance of its assets such as stations, coaching depots, locomotives, tracks, etc.The labourers employed have to be paid wages under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948, and Minimum Wages Rules, 1950, amended from time to time. Also, wherever applicable, they have to be protected under the provisions of the Employees Provident Fund Scheme, 1952 and Employees State Insurance Act, 1948, among others. Violation of these labour legislations would entail criminal proceedings against the contractor as well the principal employers.In its communication dated January 24, 2018 to all General Managers, the Ministry of Railway said that the contractors have been indulging in many irregularities especially in the payment of wages to contract labourers. Some unscrupulous contractors were resorting to various strategies to deceitfully deprive the contract labour of their rightful wages.Such unlawful practices included payment of paltry wages through cash, forcibly grabbing the ATM card of labourers and drawing part of the wages paid through banks directly. Non-payment of minimum wages to the workers is a criminal offence since it violates the statutory provisions keeping in view of the fact violation of Minimum Wages Act, 1948, and related orders, depriving contract labour of their just and legal rights and also leading to violation of conditions of contract (exposing Principal Employer to the risk of proceedings under these Acts), these unscrupulous contractors are liable to be taken up under relevant punitive/penal proceedings, the letter said.Directing the authorities to take stringent deterrent penal action against erring contractors, the Ministry said the heads of departments should put in place a robust mechanism to ensure that no violation of the labour laws occurred in the respective departments.Investigate complaintsOfficials were told to investigate complaints of poor wages and other violation of labour laws and blacklist contractors besides initiating criminal proceedings against them. Any reluctance on the part of a contractor to award minimum wages to contract labour, for the period during which he had admittedly worked, is violation of contract conditions, illegal, unfair and violates the Fundamental right of the Right to Life, the order said.When contacted, senior officials in the Southern Railway said it was common for the contractors to engage skilled/unskilled labourers from other States and pay them a paltry salary. Since the labourers were mostly illiterate they were unaware of the labour laws or their benefits. The labourers hail from very poor families and usually agree to abide by the terms and conditions of the contractors. For record purposes, their signature or thumb impression is obtained on vouchers to comply with the rules relating to payment and others, a senior railway official said.

Haryana government on Saturday reiterated its commitment to ensure compliance of provisions of all labour laws like minimum wages act,employees state insurance (ESI) act and employees provident fund (EPF) act wherever applicable,a spokesman said.The state will ensure welfare of contractual employees both engaged on contract basis directly by government departments,or public sector undertakings or through different contractors or service providers,he added.He said when a government department engaged any person directly on a period specific contract,it was not covered by the provisions of ESI,EPF Acts,and thus was not required to seek registration under these Acts.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App now

On the face of it, no major bank, state-owned or private, has escaped the non-performing assets crisis unfolding in the country. The latest addition to the list is the public-sector giant, Punjab National Bank. On Tuesday, the bank announced that its gross NPAs in the third quarter of the current fiscal increased to Rs 34,338 crore, a sharp rise from Rs 22,211 crore last year. As a result, the PNB had to increase provisioning towards NPAs to Rs 3,775 crore for Q3, up from Rs 1,467 crore in the same quarter a year ago. Eventually, the slippage due to NPAs resulted in the PNBs net profits falling 93.4 per cent to Rs 51 crore in the October-December quarter. But the PNB was not alone. Two more public-sector banks  Allahabad Bank and Dena Bank  reported a combined loss of Rs 1,100 crore just for the December quarter. Even private-sector banks are getting hit due to increasing NPAs but there is a difference between how the NPA-induced pain in the banking sector affects public-sector and private-sector banks.According to an analysis by the P.J. Nayak Committee report on the governance of bank boards in 2014, the market share of PSBs in India has fallen from 80.2 per cent in 2000 to 73 per cent in 2013. It calculated that, given this trend, PSBs will further relinquish market share and be reduced to just 63.2 per cent by 2025. This, the committee found, is due to several reasons. Irrespective of which variable one looks at  return on assets, average net interest margin, net profit per employee or the ratio of staff costs to operating expenses  PSBs massively lag behind private-sector banks. This is evident in the scale of the NPA crisis, too.In its bid to give primacy to the goal of financial inclusion, the Modi government unveiled a flurry of schemes such as the Jan Dhan Yojana, the Atal Pension Yojana and the Suraksha Bima Yojana  PSBs were expected to be the main vehicles to drive this change. At first, the hurried pace at which many of these schemes were pushed was a cause for concern. But now, as PSBs declare the true extent of stressed assets on their balance-sheets, it is becoming clear that they will find it difficult to push financial inclusion, which requires banks to put up with significant costs upfront. This underlines the urgency to reform PSBs and ensure they follow prudential norms. Failure to do so will adversely affect the goal of financial inclusion.For all the latest Opinion News, download Indian Express App

A publicity blitz by the government and a countrywide Jan Kalyan Parv organised by the Bharatiya Janata Party will mark the completion of the NDA governments first year in power on May 26.The ruling dispensation will use government-owned media, ministerial press conferences and exhibitions, official sources told The Hindu , to spread the message that this is a pro-poor, pro-growth and pro-employment administration.The BJP, on its part, has planned a more elaborate programme that takes the message of the governments achievements directly to at least half the constituencies through political meetings, social media and posters.If the BJPs communication skills  and its ability to master the perception game  played a critical role in bringing it to power last year, 12 months on it is feeling the heat: it feels it has not been able to successfully project its achievements.Prime Minister Narendra Modis monogrammed suit worn during the Obama visit and the BJPs wipe-out in the Delhi Assembly elections have, of course, led to this downward trend. But a bigger reason for the ruling dispensation facing an erosion in TRPs has been the Oppositions success in projecting the proposed government-sponsored amendments to the 2013 Land Acquisition Act as anti-farmer, pro-crony capitalist. This is especially so as it has coincided with unseasonal rains that have destroyed crops, continuing farmer suicides, hike in fertilizer prices without a corresponding increase in MSP.The efforts of the government and the party during these celebrations, will, therefore, be directed at correcting this image of an uncaring government by explaining the proposed changes in the Land Act as pro-development, while listing its achievements on the welfare front.BookletThe government will release a booklet  and hold exhibitions in at least 100 locations  that will document these achievements, while its Ministers will hold press conferences in all State capitals. All India Radio and Doordarshan will broadcast success stories through interviews with beneficiaries of government-sponsored programmes such as the Jan Dhan Yojana. The various ministries, official sources said, have been asked to send ideas.Mr. Modi is unlikely to hold a press conference, as he has interacted informally on two occasions recently with selected journalists in the national capital at dinners hosted by Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley.However, the Prime Minister will in probably hold a public meeting in Mathura on May 25, as part of the BJPs plans for 250 political rallies to be addressed by party leaders from May 26 to 31. All 282 BJP MPs have been asked to hold similar meetings in their constituencies.Jan Kalyan ParvThe BJPs six-day Jan Kalyan Parv (celebration of development) will complement the governments efforts to showcase its initiatives. The partys 150-odd spokespersons have been briefed by senior Ministers about the land acquisition Bill, foreign direct investment, foreign policy and welfare programmes that will directly benefit the people.Posters will not just highlight the successful auction of coal blocks, the governments promise of 24x7 power for every household and stressing its battle against corruption, marked by the passage of a new black money law, but also social sector initiatives such as the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana for life insurance, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana for accidental insurance and Atal Pension Yojana.State-owned media and press conferences will be used to spread the message that this is a pro-poor, pro-growth government

PM salutes courage of women on International Women's DayNew Delhi, March 8, 2015, (IANS) 11:55 ISTPrime Minister Narendra Modi greeted women on Sunday on the occasion of International Women's Day."On International Women's Day, I salute the indomitable courage and stellar achievements of women," he said in a statement."Our heads hang in shame when we hear of instances of crime against women.""We must walk shoulder-to-shoulder to end all forms of discrimination or injustice against women," he added.He said that the government is setting up one-stop centres that would provide assistance, legal advice and psychological counselling to women who face violence or abuse.The government would also start a mobile helpline (181) to enable women to gain access to counselling and referral services, said Modi."Today, we renew our pledge to make women an equal and integral part of our development journey.""My government has initiated several measures aimed at bringing about a positive change in the lives of women," the prime minister said.Citing that "Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao Yojana" seeks to usher in a paradigm shift in attitudes towards the girl child and place emphasis on educating the girl child, he added that the "Sukanya Samruddhi Yojana" would provide support for marriage and education of young women.He said that MUDRA Bank would help thousands of women achieve financial independence.Referring to broadbased social security schemes such as the "Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana", "Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Bima Yojana" and the "Atal Pension Yojana", which were presented in the union budget, he said these would immensely benefit women."I seek the support of one and all in transforming our vision into reality," he said.International Women's Day represents an opportunity to celebrate the achievements of women while calling for greater equality.

State Bank of Travancore (SBT) defeated Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) 7-0 and topped Group D in the all-India Public Sector football tournament at the Ambedkar Stadium here on Saturday.Suhas (three), Asif (two), Martin John and Sumesh scored for SBT.Other results: Airports Authority of India 3 (Vikas Rawat, Kaushik Vishwas, Chandan Singh) bt Employees Provident Fund Organisation 0; Garden Reach (Kolkata) 1 (Binod Nayak) bt Employees State Insurance Corporation 0; Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited 3 (Munir Shaikh 2, Ansari) bt Neyveli Lignite Corporation 1 (Rajan).  Special Correspondent

VARANASI: The parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi will witness launch of several schemes for the common people to mark the first anniversary of NDA government in power.While Union urban development minister Venkaiah Naidu is going to launch social security schemes here on Saturday, minister of minority affairs Najma Heptullah will launch NDA government's another ambitious scheme for minorities on May 14.According to a PIB press statement, the PM will launch two insurance schemes -- Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) -- at a function in Kolkata on Saturday that would provide insurance cover in case of death by any cause / death or disability due to an accident. Besides, he will also launch a pension scheme, Atal Pension Yojana (APY), that would address old age income security needs.These three schemes will be launched simultaneously at 116 centres across the country. In Varanasi, Naidu will launch these schemes at the auditorium of Nagari Natak Mandali, Kabirchowra. PMSBY will offer a renewable one-year accidental death-cum disability cover of Rs 2 lakh (Rs 1 Lakh for partial permanent disability) to all savings bank account holders in the age group of 18 to 70 years for a premium of Rs 12 per annum per subscriber.The scheme would be offered / administered through public sector general insurance companies (PSGICs) or other general insurance companies willing to offer the product on similar terms on the choice of the bank / RRB / cooperative bank concerned.PMJJBY will offer a renewable one-year life cover of Rs 2 lakh to all savings bank account holders in the age group of 18 to 50 years, covering death due to any reason, for a premium of Rs 330 per annum per subscriber. The scheme would be offered / administered through LIC or other life Insurance companies willing to offer the product on similar terms on the choice of the bank / RRB / cooperative bank concerned.APY, the third scheme will focus on the unorganised sector and provide subscribers a fixed minimum pension of Rs 1,000, Rs 2,000, Rs 3,000, Rs 4,000 or Rs 5000 per month starting at the age of 60 years, depending on the contribution option exercised on entering at an age between 18 and 40 years.Thus, the period of contribution by any subscriber under APY would be 20 years or more. The fixed minimum pension would be guaranteed by the government.On the other hand, the USTAAD will be launched by Heptullah at the Cultural Complex, Chowkaghat on May 14. The officials of the ministry of minority affairs visited the complex on Friday to take stock of the preparations. The scheme aims at upgrading skills and training in preservation of traditional ancestral arts/crafts of minorities.

Insurance players laud limit hikeBenny Antony, Mumbai, Feb 28, 2015, DHNS: 1:52 ISTThe insurance industry welcomed the Finance Ministers move to hike the exemption limit of health insurance to Rs 25,000 from Rs 10,000.With respect to the insurance sector, the increase in exemption for health insurance is a welcome move. Also, multiple initiatives have been taken towards providing social security by means of introducing life and accidental insurance and pension schemes for financially weaker sections, Rajesh Sud, CEO and Managing Director, Max Life Insurance said.In order to encourage the health insurance protection, the FM also announced a raise in deduction under section 80D on health insurance premia. This deduction under Section 80D has been raised from 10,000 to 25,000. This must boost the demand for the health products. It is likely that insurers will launch new health insurance product to meet this demand, Sunil Sharma, Chief Actuary at Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance, said.Introducing a coverage of Rs 2 lakh for a premium of 12 per year under PM Suraksha Bima Yojana is of significant value to the lower strata of our society and ensures social wellbeing of the families of vulnerable lives. The Atal Pension Yojana is a great step which will lead to significant amount of retirement savings, given that the government will contribute 50 per cent. There were some grievances as well from the insurance industry post the Budget.

Despite the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) repeatedly issuing circulars to all scheduled commercial banks across the country to provide banking facilities to customers with disabilities at a par with non-disabled people, the majority of disabled people continue to be inconvenienced by the banks. The situation is especially grim in rural areas and post the demonetisation announcement.The hurdles for disabled people to access banking services are plenty. Many disabled people, especially in rural India, find it difficult to sign bank documents, and are denied ATM cards, cheque books and Internet banking. The majority of commercial banks have archaic rules in their statute books which debar people with disabilities from opening independent accounts. Persons with disabilities are compelled to produce witnesses every time they visit banks to make online transactions through real-time gross settlement and national electronic funds transfer.Denial of banking servicesThe banking industry has classified its customers; it prioritises those it considers suitable for the banks business, be it in terms of customer needs, interest in certain product features, or customer profitability. Disabled persons are excluded. In this age of technology, banks have embarked on a slew of innovative strategies to woo the general public. We have been witnessing a lot of tailor-made financial products and services for general customers. However, there is a common perception among bank officials that disabled people do not require banking products and services. This is perhaps why most bank websites are inaccessible. The majority of them offer graphical captcha to enable customers to proceed on these sites. These make it impossible for a fully blind person to access available services. Moreover, disabled customers are perceived as dependent on their family members; they are seen as lacking independent agency to make their own decisions.In many rural areas, if a visually impaired person or a person with low vision walks into a bank to open an account, most banks dont comply. Bank officials often insist that the person should open a joint bank account with a person with sight, or open an account with no ATM card/cheque book facility or both. The situation is worse for those with hearing impairments and intellectual disabilities. If a person who is deaf visits a bank for availing the benefits of a scheme or service, the branch more often than not lacks the manpower to understand or interpret sign language. People with psycho-social disabilities are the worst hit  they require a guardian to sign a contract on their behalf.The launch of the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) in 2014 provided an impetus for financial inclusion. Under the PMJDY, the mandate is not restricted to opening accounts. The aim is to provide easier access to banks through the issuing of RuPay cards, which, incidentally, carry an inbuilt accident insurance cover of Rs.1 lakh. Providing small-value overdrafts based on satisfactory conduct of account, availability of low-cost life insurance (Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana) and accident insurance (Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana) and pension scheme (Atal Pension Yojana) are also part of the PMJDY initiative. However, disabled people are denied loan facilities. A majority of banks refrain from offering insurance to people with disabilities. The call for financial inclusion has thus become an illusion for disabled people.Demonetisation and disabilityThe demonetisation move has further aggravated the problem. First, the Prime Minister uses a patronising term to refers to those with disabilities: divyang (those with divine bodies). Second, there are long queues outside ATMs and banks, and disabled persons find it difficult to avail of cash and services in such an environment, especially in rural areas. Despite the RBI stating that banks have to take necessary steps to provide all existing ATMs/future ATMs with ramps so that wheel chair users/persons with disabilities can easily access them, most ATMs remain inaccessible. In the current environment, the government has proposed that there should be separate queues for persons with disabilities and for senior citizens, but the reality is starkly different.The call for financial inclusion is a distant dream for disabled people who face harassment from financial institutions across the country. Banks and companies that offer insurance policies are not yet ready to accept disabled people as respected clients. The monthly state-sponsored pension, which is the sole meagre monetary support for many disabled people, hardly reaches them on time. The RBI and the government need to take punitive action against those errant officials and banks that contravene the RBIs guidelines for providing banking facilities to disabled people. We must uphold the spirit of Article 41 of the Constitution (Right to public assistance for the disabled).Avinash Shahi is a doctoral candidate at the Centre for the Study of Law and Governance, JNU.The call for financial inclusion is an unfulfilled dream for disabled people whocontinue to face harassment from financial institutions

Mangaluru, May 22:27 ISTUnion Law Minister D V Sadananda Gowda has said the dream schemes of the Centre - Pradhna Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana would create a new milestone in social security in India.After inaugurating the schemes for Dakshina Kannada district here on Saturday, he said these schemes are historical because of many reasons. Here there is no need on income certificate or medical certificate. During the launch of Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna many were making fun of it. But, within six months around 13 crore bank accounts have been opened.Bankers roleFirst time in the independent India bankers went to the doorsteps of people. Now, those accounts would be helpful to implement these three schemes. The government is confident that bankers will work to cover all citizens of India under the schemes. They are crucial in reaching government schemes to public, he said.The minister claimed that NDA government was never against common man or corporate-friendly. The government has brought financial discipline in the country and the GDP growth has been improved. The government has given prominence to transparency and professionalism in administration, investment and improvement and corruption-free governance.MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said the dream Ramaraajya of Mahatma Gandhi has become a reality with three schemes which would give social security to every individual. Than giving anything free, it is better to teach how to fill confidence among poor to lead life.Under the governance of PM Narendra Modi, world is looking at India and India is moving towards self-sufficiency, he said.Live telecast of Inauguration of three schemes by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was screened from Kolkata. The programmes were organised at 115 cities of the country including four in Karnataka.Around 11 banks and insurance companies had opened stalls. MLC Capt Ganesh Karnik, DC A B Ibrahim, Corporation Bank Executive Director B K Srivasthav, UCO Bank Chairman Arun Kaul, ZP CEO Sreevidya, MCC Commissioner Hephsiba Rani Korlapati were present.What are the schemes?Pradhna Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana provides accident insurance upto Rs 2 lakh for the premium of Rs 12 per annum (Rs 1/ month). Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana provides life insurance of Rs 2 lakh for the annual premium of Rs 330.Atal Pension Yojana helps to people from unorganised sector to get pension upto Rs 5,000 upon completion of 60 years.

LEGAL BACKING: Smart cards work using cryptography, which is more fool-proof than biometrics. FILE PHOTOThe government has decided to stop issuing new smart cards to beneficiaries of government schemes as Aadhaar is now backed by a lawThe Prime Ministers Office (PMO) has issued strict instructions to the Information Technology Ministry to ensure that States and the Central governmentstop issuing smart cards for new programmes for beneficiaries, and to rely on the Aadhaar-based Direct Benefit Transfer platform instead.The move will impact ministries such as Labour, Social Justice and Health, which are in the process or have already rolled out smart cards.The government had said earlier that over 100 crore people, constituting 93 per cent of the adult population, had a unique identification (UID) number under the Aadhaar platform.The undersigned is directed to request the department to examine the need for state and central government departments to issue separate smart cards in the light of the near universal coverage of Aadhaar and the delivery of the most public welfare benefits through Aadhaar enabled platforms, according to a directive issued by Gulzar N, Director, PMO, to Aruna Sharma, Secretary, Department of Electronics and Information Technology.The undersigned is also directed to request the department to prepare policy on the delivery of various public services using Aadhaar, Jan Dhan Yojana and existing platforms without the issuance of new smart cards.Last month, Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Thaawar Chand Gehlot had announced that all differently abled persons would soon get a unique identity card to avail welfare schemes. .State governments had also planned to use smart card technology for welfare schemes. For instance, Odisha was mulling smart cards for construction workers in the State.The PMO sent a separate communiqu to Labour Secretary Shankar Aggarwal in the context of a proposal to issue 40 crore smart cards to informal sector workers, called the Unorganised Workers Identification Number (U-WIN). The UWIN cards were to be used by these workers to access benefits under schemes such as Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana , Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana , Atal Pension Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana.The PMO rejected the proposal noting that Aadhaar would act as a universal unique identifier for each citizen.Adding a UWIN number would not only duplicate work, but also introduce further problems in linking up with other databases which have already been linked with Aadhaar, said the missive reviewed by The Hindu .However, experts are sceptical of the governments move.Smart cards are always better than biometrics. If that was not the case, the global financial infrastructure today will be working on biometrics and not on smart cards, said Sunil Abraham, executive director of The Centre for Internet and Society.Why are these banks working on smart cards? Smart cards work using cryptography, which is more fool-proof than biometrics. Biometrics allow for remote, covert and non-consensual identification, Mr. Abraham said.Smart card vendors, however, said the move may not impact their market. The demand for smart cards is massive in all the other segments such as for use in debit and credit cards or driving licenses and vehicle registration numbers, said Deven Mehta, managing director of the Mumbai-based Smart Card IT Solutions.

District in-charge Secretary P.B. Ramamurthy has emphasised the need to enrol more number of farmers for the health insurance and social security schemes launched by both the Union and the State governments to bail them out of the financial crisis.Mr. Ramamurthy was speaking at a meeting here on Friday to review the progress of the implementation of various development programmes in the district.Apart from the factors like fluctuation of prices of agricultural produce and crop loss due to vagaries of weather, the increase in medical expenses was also a reason for the financial distress of the farmers, which had compelled many of them to commit suicide.It was essential to enrol more number of farmers for health insurance schemes like Yashaswini, Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana and Vajpayee Arogyashree schemes.In addition, officials of the departments of agriculture, horticulture and cooperative societies should strive to enrol farmers for social security schemes launched by the Union government, including Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana to provide them and their family members with financial security, he said.Joint Director of the Department of Agriculture K. Madhusudan, in his address, said that, so far, 11 farmers had committed suicide in the district and compensation had been paid to the family members of four of them.Deputy Director of Department of Horticulture M. Vishwanath said that while free power was being provided for irrigation pumpsets of up to 10 hp capacity across the State, the Mangalore Electricity Supply Company (Mescom) was charging higher tariff for irrigation pumpsets used by farmers, who had set up polyhouses and greenhouses, by including them under the commercial category of power consumers. As a majority of those engaged in the cultivation of flowers and vegetables in greenhouse and polyhouse methods were small and marginal farmers, free power should be provided to them for up to 10 hp pumpsets, he said.M. Eshwar, Superintending Engineer of Mescom, in his reply, said that the issue had been brought to the notice of the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission.Mr. Vishwanath also said that the department had worked out a plan to provide training in mushroom cultivation to the members of women self-help groups.District Social Welfare Officer Manjunath said that it had been planned to install solar water heaters in all the 89 hostels managed by the Department of Social Welfare in the district. In addition, training in computer operation would be imparted among those staying in these hostels, he said.Chief Executive Officer of the zilla panchayat B. Ramu and Additional Deputy Commissioner N.M. Nagaraj we6re present.A majority of those engaged in floriculture and vegetable cultivation are small and marginal farmers.M. Vishwanath,Deputy Director, Department of Horticulture

Bharath Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) has revised the free-night broadband plans to concessional night tariff subscribers from July 1. A release said additional usage charges after free download/upload have also been revised. For details, visit www.bsnl.co.in.Army recruitment rallyThe Indian Army would hold recruitment rally at Vidyagiri Grounds in Moodabidri between August 5 and 12 to recruit jawans under different disciplines. Chairing a preliminary meeting in this regard here on Thursday, Deputy Commissioner A.B. Ibrahim urged the youth in the district to make use of the rally since not many join the Army from Dakshina Kannada. Mr. Ibrahim said the district administration would make necessary arrangements, including police security at the venue, drinking water and food for participating candidates etc. Recruitment Director Vishwanath said educationally and physically qualified candidates may attend the rally with relevant documents directly. Those qualifying physically and medially would have to attend the written test later, he said.PU supplementary examinationThe supplementary examination for II Pre-University course was conducted at nine centres in Dakshina Kannada district on Thursday. While 114 candidates appeared for sociology, 713 attended accountancy, 724 attended physics and two attended psychology papers, said an official release.Revised guidance value for propertiesThe draft revised guidance value for immovable properties within the jurisdiction of Moodabidri sub registrars office has been published at the offices of the Tahsildar, town municipality and sub registrar, Moodabidri. People may submit in writing objections if any to the sub registrar, said an official release.EPFO special recovery driveThe Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) will conduct a special recovery drive in August to augment recovery of provident fund and other dues payable by defaulting employers of the establishments covered by the EPF and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. The department has urged all employers to clear their dues immediately so as to avoid penal action, including arrest and detention in civil prison, said an official release.Yoga camp for DiabetesThe Patanjali Yoga Shikshana Samithi will conduct a Yoga treatment camp for Diabetes from July 6 to July 20 at Sri Krishna Mandira, Vithoba Temple Road, between 6 am and 7.30 pm by trained Yoga teachers. Interested may contact 98450 81232, 8762364777, 96112 03347 or 98807 23507, said a release.ESI Employers ConclaveAn employers conclave, a meeting of all stakeholders of Employees State Insurance Scheme (ESIS), will be held on July 9 at 3.30 pm at the newly opened sub-regional office (SRO) of ESI Corporation, 1st Floor, City Point, Navabharath Circle, Kodialbail, Mangalore. The SRO has jurisdiction over branch offices of Mangalore, Baikampady and Udupi, said a release from ESIC. The stakeholders may give suggestions for successful implementation of the ESI scheme. From August onwards, the conclave would be held on second Wednesdays of every month at SRO and on second Friday at branch offices.

Service tax relief to Modi's social security schemesAnnapurna Singh, New Delhi, Apr 30, 2015, DHNS: 9:13 ISTSimplified ITR forms soon, says JaitleyFinance Minister Arun Jaitley on Thursday exempted Prime Minister Narendra Modis social security schemes from service tax and promised a simplified income tax return (ITR) form in place of the recently introduced 14-page document.Replying to a debate on the Finance Bill, 2015, Jaitley also said the government would soon start a PAN Card drive on the lines of Jandhan Yojana through camps that will allow people, including farmers, to acquire PAN Card within 48 hours.Later, the Lok Sabha passed the Finance Bill by a voice vote marking the completion of the budget exercise in the lower house.The schemes which were exempted from service tax included the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana that seek to provide insurance cover in the event of death or disability due to an accident.Atal Pension Yojana that addresses old age income security needs was also exempted from the service tax. Modi will launch these schemes on May 9 from Kolkata.On the recently introduced ITR forms which courted controversy, Jaitley said, the government would soon come up with an extremely simplified ITR form but did not elaborate on whether the government still required the foreign asset and foreign travel details in the new forms.For foreign investors, the finance ministers offered relief by exempting income foreign firms earned from securities transactions and interest, royalties and fees for technical service from MAT. But the exemption would apply only in those cases where the normal tax rate is below 18.5 per cent.Henceforth, the incomes earned by foreign companies, including foreign institutional investors, on investments in government and other fixed income securities will not be covered under MAT provisions.MAT norms on real estate investment trusts were also eased. Jaitley also promised expeditious issuance of PAN cards by holding camps across the country on the lines of Jan Dhan Yojana.He said this while defending the Budget proposal to make PAN mandatory for transactions exceeding Rs 1 lakh.Jaitley said the PAN card drive will help people get the card within 48 hours. There was no bar on non-tax payers on taking PAN cards as the government wanted all citizens to have it in a bid to curb black money, he said.Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy raised the issue of jewellers unions urging the government to exempt the sector from mandatory PAN card norm that hindered rural people from buying ornaments.On the indirect taxes, Jaitley said the export tax on low-grade iron ore would be lowered to 10 per cent from 30 per cent to boost shipments of the raw material from Goa.In the same vein, he raised the customs duty on natural rubber to 25 per cent from 20 per cent to give better protection to domestic growers. The basic customs duty on raw silk was reduced to 15 per cent. The new duty structure will be applicable from June 1, Jaitley said.

The district received moderate to widespread rainfall on Monday with Samayapuram recording the maximum rain of 55 mm during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday. The following is the chief amount of rainfall recorded in other parts of the district during the same period (in mm): Tiruchi Town 41, Marungapuri 40.40, Manapparai 40.20, Tiruchi Airport 29.50, Tiruchi Junction 23.50, Devimangalam 23, Golden Rock 22, Kovilpatti 13.20, Vathalai Anicut 11.60 and Thuvakudi 10. The district received an average rainfall of 14.23 mm.Applicationsinvited for loansApplications have been invited for the subsidy-cum-loan schemes implemented by the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes Economic Development Corporation. The Corporation extends loans to small and marginal farmers from backward, most backward and denotified communities for creating irrigation facilities through new borewells with motors. Credit is extended for various economic activities such as agriculture and agriculture allied business, small business, handicrafts, transport and service business ventures. The credit would be extended through cooperative and nationalised banks, Collector K.S.Palanisamy said in a press release.Procure paddy without delayThe farmers wing of the Tamil Manila Congress has urged the State government to ensure the procurement of paddy without any delay at the Direct Purchase Centres in the delta districts. In a statement issued here, A.Nagarajan, president of the farmers wing, said kuruvai paddy brought in by farmers in some places were not being procured immediately. The government should also relax the norms to procure paddy with a moisture content of up to 24 per cent, he demanded.Fix minimum wageThe Tamil Nadu Jananayaka Kattumana Thozhilalar Sangam has urged the government to fix the minimum monthly wage for construction workers at Rs.20,000. A resolution to this effect was adopted at the State office bearers meeting of the association held here recently. The association also urged the government to provide a minimum pension of Rs.7,500 a month for construction workers. Construction workers should be covered under Employees State Insurance Corporation and Employees Provident Fund Organisation, the meeting demanded.

Social security:The wage ceiling for the EPFO has to be higher than the minimum wage itself, union leaders said. FILE PHOTOThe Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has written to the Centre demanding a higher wage ceiling of Rs.25,000 per month for its social security schemes raising the possibility of more workers being added to the provident fund pool.All employees earning salary of up to Rs.25,000 per month will be eligible to receive provident fund savings. At present, EPF is optional for workers earning more than Rs.15,000 per month.It was (unanimously) decided that a proposal should be sent immediately to the Central Government to increase the wage ceiling under EPF & MP Act, 1952 and Schemes framed thereunder to Rs 25,000 per month, according to the minutes of the meeting of EPFOs sub-committee on contract workers, held on November 7.Trade union leaders, who were a part of the EPF committee, argued that even in the Seventh Pay Commission, the minimum wage was Rs.18,000 per month which might be further increased as the trade unions had been demanding a higher minimum wage of at least Rs.21,000-Rs.22,000.As the minimum wage itself had become more than the existing wage ceiling of Rs.15,000 per month for EPFO, it was high time that wage ceiling in EPFO be also increased, Hind Mazdoor Sabhas A.D. Nagpal said.Previous revisionThe previous wage ceiling was revised in September 2014 when the limit was increased from Rs.6,500 to Rs.15,000 per month.Recently, the Labour Ministry had recently raised the threshold wage limit for coverage of Employees State Insurance (ESI) from Rs.15,000 to Rs.21,000 per month allowing more workers to get health care benefits.At present, around 3.7 crore active members are subscribed to EPFO out of which about three crore workers are those in the earning category of Rs 15,000 and below. Both employer and employee contribute 12 per cent each of the latters income towards EPF.Railway employeesThe EPFO has written to the Union labour ministry demanding inclusion of 13 lakh Indian Railways workers under its fold.In the meeting, EPFOs Central Provident Fund Commissioner V.P. Joy said many contract workers are deprived of PF benefits on account of the fact that the Central Department or organisation where they are working does not come under the purview of EPF & MP Act, 1952.

Expressing concern over non-disbursement of Mudra loans (Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana) in the district, Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has directed the officials to hold a Mudra loan mela by March and the lead bank to send the details of beneficiaries under the scheme.The Minister, who chaired a meeting with Collector S. Natarajan and heads of all departments here on Wednesday to review the implementation of New India Vision 2022 in the district, regretted that the district lagged behind in disbursing Mudra loans to the poor and downtrodden.The Centre has designed the loan to help vendors, fisher folk and hawkers who could not produce collateral security to avail bank loans and to free them from the clutches of money lenders but she was sorry to say that she was not touched by this performance.You should organise the Mudra loan mela by March 31 and I will come and sit here, she said and directed the lead bank (Indian Overseas Bank) to send a report by Wednesday to Delhi, giving details of the beneficiaries so far from the district.The Collector and P. Mariammal, General Manager, District Industrial Centre (DIC), said that the Pandyan Grama Bank had organised a loan mela and distributed loans to the tune of Rs. 5.05 crore to more than 2,000 beneficiaries but the Minister was not convinced.She questioned as why the nationalised banks had not disbursed Mudra loans in the last two years.You have no right to say no when people came to the banks, seeking loans, she told the bank officials adding you are here to give loans.She also asked the banks to ensure that the benefits of Pradan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana reached the poor and needy.Justifying the review meeting, she said the Centre had deputed Ministers to review the implementation of vision 2022 in all the 115 districts, identified as aspirational districts in the country and find out whether the centrally sponsored schemes benefited the poor, she said.The Minister turned angry when a BJP leader complained that bank officials treated the poor as untouchables when they approached them for loans and drove them out saying go and ask if the Prime Minister promised to give loans.If this was the state of affairs, how could the district, with a backward tag, would develop, she asked.

Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan hands over insurance certificates of newly launched schemesin the city on Saturday. Photo: G. MoorthyThe social security schemes launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been introduced in a move towards an inclusive society where the underprivileged could become financially more secure, said Union Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways Pon. Radhakrishnan here on Saturday.The Minister was in the city to launch three social security schemes  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana, and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana at Lakshmi Sundaram Hall where an address by Mr. Modi from the launch of the schemes in Kolkata was telecast live. Mr. Radhakrishnan addressed representatives from banks and the public who had enrolled in the schemes.The schemes were offered at extremely low rates of premium so as to reach a large number of people, the Minister said.The schemes would help them feel financially secure, give them dignity and strengthen their self-esteem, he said.Stating that more than 1.62 lakh persons had already enrolled themselves in the social security schemes in the district, Mr. Radhkrishnan said that he expected the numbers to rise, on the lines of Jan Dhan Yojana.The schemesThe Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana life insurance scheme enables bank account holders from 18 years to 50 years avail insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh for which an annual premium of Rs. 330 is to be paid.The Pradhan Manthri Suraksha Yojana accident insurance policy for bank account holders from 18 to 70 years of age gives them an insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh with a minimum annual premium of Rs. 12.The Atal Pension Yojana which is available for those working in the unorganised sector.Self-employed agriculturalists, who are not income tax payers and do not avail any other social security schemes and aged between 18 and 40 can enrol in the scheme.A representative of a private bank in the city said that they had been sending SMS to their customers detailing the scheme and encouraging them to join them.

In a major policy shift, the Central Board of Trustees of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation has decided to park 5 per cent of its funds in the equity market.At a press conference here on Saturday, Union Labour Minister Bandaru Dattatreya said the decision was in line with the suggestions made by Finance Minister Arun Jaitely that the EPFO invest up to 15 per cent of its funds in the equity market.Mr. Dattatreya said the investment would fetch higher returns and help raise the interest rate offered to employees contributions.To start with, one per cent of the funds would be invested in the equity market this month and the amount would be gradually increased to 5 per cent by the end of the financial year.In another major announcement, the Minister said the Central Board of Trustees of the Employees State Insurance Corporation, at its latest meeting, decided to invest funds available with it from the contribution of employees through portfolio managers on the lines of the EPFO.Employees interests would be the priority of the EPFO and care would be taken in the equity investments, the Labour Minister added.

Apart from the provisions contained in the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970, the rights of Contract Labourers are protected by various Labour Laws, the Committee noted. REUTERS Apart from the provisions contained in the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970, the rights of Contract Labourers are protected by various Labour Laws, the Committee noted. REUTERSA Parliamentary panel has pitched for amending laws for contract labour in the Budget Session to provide for equal wages, working hours and other conditions of services at par with regular employees. There is now an urgent need for amendment to the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970, which should be the guiding force for the protection of rights of a huge work force of Contract Labourers in the country in terms of wages, hours of work, holidays and other conditions of service similar to that of regular employees, Parliamentary Committee on Petitions chaired by Bhagat Singh Koshyari said in a report tabled in Parliament on Friday.Noting that the country needs not only the urgent redressal of grievances of the Contract Labourers but also making a workable formulation to induce the Contractors and the Principal Employers to adhere to the various provisions of the Act. The Committee recommend that the government should finalise all the deliberations relating to amendment of the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970.The Committee said,  (We) expect and trust that self-contained proposals, in the form of a Bill, shall be introduced in the Parliament by the Government during the Budget Session of 2017. It recommended that the government focus on coalescing all the existing Labour Laws into one unified piece of legislation with specific provisions covering Labour-Management relations, wages, social security, safety at workplace, welfare provisions, terms and condition of employment, recognition of trade unions, provisions regarding collective bargaining, and above all, enforcement of International Labour Standards. Such a comprehensive legislative enactment would also serve as a model for the State Governments, it said.Apart from the provisions contained in the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970, the rights of Contract Labourers are protected by various Labour Laws, the Committee noted. These include Industrial Disputes Act of 1947; Employees Compensation Act of 1923; Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provision Act of 1952; Employees State Insurance Act of 1948; Maternity Benefit Act of 1961; Payment of Wages Act of 1936; Minimum Wages Act of 1948; Equal Remuneration Act of 1976; Payment of Gratuity Act of 1972; Payment of Bonus Act of 1965; Mines Act of 1952; Factories Act of 1948 and so on.The Committee pointed out that the overall welfare and protection of rights of workers could not be effectively achieved by way of making amendments only to the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970  in view of the fact that other Labour Laws also deal with various aspects connected with their well being in the form of health, safety and social security.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App now

Nari Shakti Jharkhand Pradesh president Arti Behra at the event in Ranchi on Sunday. (Prashant Mitra) State urban administration director Shashiranjan Prasad Singh and rural development department special secretary Paritosh Upadhyay on Sunday informed underprivileged women about issues ranging from Mudra Bank loans to medical help, while outlining central and state welfare schemes. Organised at a city hotel by social outfit Nari Shakti Jharkhand Pradesh, the event saw at least 70 women voicing their concerns, from lack of job opportunities and toilets, to having to run from pillar to post for medical facilities and widow pensions. While many women wanted to know about newly launched Pradhan Mantri Mudra Bank and similar economic welfare schemes, some from the minority community wanted to know how to go about getting loans for pink autos. "The state government has set a target for a toilet at each household for which it is paying Rs 12,000. This apart, the central government has also undertaken toilet schemes under Swach Bharat Abhiyan, so it is our collective priority to ensure 100 per cent toilets in each of the panchayat," Singh said. Upadhyay, on his part, said the Centre had directed all banks to give priority to women to sanction loans. "According to data of the number of people who have been granted loans under this scheme across the country, half are women. In Jharkhand, the numbers may even tilt in favour of women," Upadhyay said. He also stressed on the state government promoting self-help groups for entrepreneurship powered by micro finance. "Once you form a self-help group, the government sanctions Rs 15,000 to run it. You can obtain loan from the group, which you need to pay back after a certain time. As the group and its activities expand, the government will sanction Rs 50,000 to it," Upadhyay said. The assembled women were also informed that under the 12th Five Year Plan (2012-2017), the state government would be training as many as 70,000 rural workforce in various trades. But, the interaction clearly revealed that very few women knew about newly launched pension and life insurance schemes of the central government such as Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana. "We must inform women about the existing schemes that would help them improve their lives," said Singh. "Awareness drives among women about scheme, their rights and responsibilities, are the need of the hour," Upadhyay said. After the interaction, Nari Shakti Jharkhand Pradesh president Arti Behra collected all women's applications about complaints and suggestions.

WFCs for social security to workers in unorganised sectorMysore, February 14 2012, DHNS: 23:28 IST215 centres opened in state; data of 62,000 workers collatedObserving that social security schemes are yet to reach eligible beneficiaries completely, deputy commissioner P S Vastrad said the worker facilitation centres (WFCs) would help officials and facilitators take government programmes to the doorstep of workers in the unorganised sector.He was speaking at a programme organised to launch the logo of WFCs here on Tuesday. He said WFCs would ensure that officials and facilitators would visit areas, where workers from the unorganised sector work, and collect information first-hand.Speaking on the occasion, programme coordinator K S Manjunath said that labour department has brought this scheme in order to provide a single window to help unorganised workers in the state to gain access to variety of social security benefits.The scheme is being taken up by department of labour and GIZ (Deutsche Gessellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit).Mentioning that government facilities should be easily accessible to people, he said facilitators should forward the applications of eligible beneficiaries to the concerned officials. The deputy commissioner and zilla panchayat chief executive officers should guide the programme, he added.Expressing concern on the progress of the scheme in the district, he said the scheme was faring better in Bellary due to a concerted effort. The scheme mandates WFCs to identify and facilitate registration of unorganised workers, disseminate information on various schemes, provide support to unorganised workers in filling, processing and forwarding applications to access social security benefits provided by the government.WFCs, which have been set-up in two taluks each in Bangalore, Bellary, Dakshina Kannada, Gulbarga and Mysore, have already collected data of 62,000 unorganised worker households. In Mysore district, the project is being implemented in Mysore and Hunsur taluks. The software used for the project is also being used to find out if any of the households have access to social security benefits.The software is used to store required documents to facilitate access to various government schemes such as old age, widow and disability pensions, Construction Workers Welfare Fund, National Pension Scheme, Aam Admi Bima Yojna, Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana and Vajpayee Arogyashree.ZP CEO G Sathyavathi, programme director Hans Christopher Amman, Namratha Sharma and others were present.

Although the SeventhPay Commission recommendations were to be implemented with effect from January 1, except for a few organisations that are self-sufficient, including the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Employees Provident Fund Organisation, and Employees State Insurance Corporation, no one has done so, an official told The Hindu .Sources said the move asking autonomous institutions to generate 30% of the extra costs was aimed at bringing in financial discipline in the institutions.M. Krishnan, secretary general of the Confederation of Central Government Employees and Workers, said several autonomous institutions were set up with a purpose to be fulfilled within a specified time frame. Most of them are continuing on indefinitely and have made recruitments. The Centre has been paying [for them] all these years. The Finance Ministry was keen on studying the financial viability, profitability and performance of these bodies before announcing the pay commission. However, following pressure from organisations such as ours, the Seventh Pay Commission was announced..., he said.Saying the confederation has brought to the Finance Ministrys notice the difficulty faced by autonomous institutions, he expressed hope that they would be exempted from the condition.

While the three schemes will come into effect from June 1, Modi said that in the first seven days of the trial run, banks have enrolled 5.05 crore people, including 42 lakh from West Bengal. (Source: PTI)Sharing the stage with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for the first time since assuming office, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched three major social security schemes in Kolkata.Calling himself the pradhan sevak, Modi said that the social security schemes he was launching  the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and the Atal Pension Yojana  were not meant to reap any political benefits. There are several small-time politicians who launch certain schemes to win the next election. But today, I am present here as the pradhan sevak of the country. The schemes would benefit people when they are 60 years old. At that time, they will remember this programme in Kolkata and remember Modiji.Invoking Rabindranath Tagore, he added, We are launching these schemes because Gurudev said poor do not need support, they need power. And we are trying to give power to them.While the three schemes will come into effect from June 1, Modi said that in the first seven days of the trial run, banks have enrolled 5.05 crore people, including 42 lakh from West Bengal.Addressing the crowd, Banerjee said that many schemes launched with hype do not eventually reach those in need, prompting the PM to respond.The banking sector and LIC are doing good, but their efforts do not reach the people. I request you to take the schemes to the door of the underprivileged. When we came to power in the state, we saw that 1,000 out of 3,005 gram panchayats do not have a bank, said the CM.Modi responded, The Bengal CM has given data on banks in gram panchayats. But this is the account of the last 60 years. I can understand her pain. I know she is bringing this to my notice because she has faith in me. She knows that if anybody can change the situation, that person is me.He then seemed to reach out to Banerjee, saying, We know that what Bengal thinks today, India thinks tomorrow. Our history states the same. Everything that started in Bengal prospered. This is the land of Gurudev and Swami ji (Swami Vivekananda). They have taught us to serve the poor. The people of this land worship Durga. But they have blessings of both Saraswati and Lakshmi. So, I believe the launch of these schemes from Bengal will surely yield results.Giving an account of the schemes launched by her government, Banerjee said, The country flourishes when the Centre and the state work shoulder to shoulder for the development of people. We started the kanyashree scheme much earlier than the Centre did The Centre allocated Rs 100 crore for the beti padhao scheme. Our PM would be happy to know that we did it much earlier.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App

New Delhi, Feb 28, 2015, PTI: 17:59 ISTReferring to unclaimed deposits of about Rs 3,000 crores in the PPF and Rs 6,000 crores in the EPF corpus, Jaitley said the amounts will be appropriated to a corpus, which will be used to subsidise the premiums on social security schemes for senior citizens.Underlining the need to raise public investment in infrastructure, he proposed increased outlays on roads and the gross budgetary support to the railways, by Rs 14,031 crore and Rs 10,050 crore respectively.State-owned firms will spend Rs 80,844 crore more in 2015-16 at Rs 3,17,889 crore.He also proposed to establish National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF) with an annual flow of Rs 20,000 crore.Jaitley said he intends to permit tax free infrastructure bonds for the projects in the rail, road and irrigation sector and announced that the PPP mode of infrastructure development will be revisited and revitalized.To provide power to all, Government proposes to set up five new ultra mega power projects each of 4000 MWs in the plug-and-play mode.To promote investment in the country, the Minister proposed to set up a Public Debt Management Agency (PDMA) which will bring both India's external borrowings and domestic debt under one roof.He also proposed to merge the Forwards Markets Commission with SEBI to strengthen regulation of commodity forward markets and reduce wild speculation.Jaitley announced minting of Indian Gold Coin, which will carry the Ashoka Chakra on its face.In order to catalyze investments from the private sector in South East Asia, a Project Development Company will set up manufacturing hubs in Cambodia, Myanmar, Laos and Vietnam.To curb domestic black money, a new and more comprehensive Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Bill will be introduced in the current Session of the Parliament.This law will enable confiscation of benami property and provide for prosecution, thus blocking a major avenue for generation and holding of black money in the form of benami property, especially in real estate.Quoting of PAN is being made mandatory for any purchase or sale exceeding the value of Rs one lakh.Finance Minister said basic custom duty on certain inputs, raw materials, intermediates and components in 22 items is proposed to be reduced to minimize the impact of duty evasion.All goods except populated printed circuit boards for use in manufacture of ITA bound items are proposed to be exempted from SAD. Subject to actual user condition, SAD will be reduced on import of certain other imports and raw materials.The two per cent additional surcharge on super-rich will give Rs 9,000 crore against a tax sacrifice of Rs 1,008 crore from abolition of wealth tax.To eliminate the scope for discretionary exercise of power and provide a hassle-free structure to the tax payers, Jaitley proposed to increase the threshold limit from Rs 5 crore to Rs 20 crore.In order to rationalise the MAT provisions for FIIs, profits corresponding to their income from capital gains on transactions in securities which are liable to tax at a lower rate, shall not be subject to MAT, he said.Education cess and the Secondary and Higher education cess is proposed to be subsumed in central excise duty. The general rate of central excise duty of 12.36 per cent including the cesses will be rounded off to 12.5 per cent.The ad-valorem rates of excise duty lower than 12 per cent and those higher than 12 per cent with a few exceptions are not proposed to be increased.Excise duty on footwears with leather uppers and having retail price of more than Rs 1,000 per pair is proposed to be reduced to 6 per cent.Service tax plus education cess is proposed to be increased from 12.36 per cent to 14 per cent to facilitate transaction to GST.In the first full-year Budget of the NDA government that shunned populism, he proposed no changes in personal and corporate income-tax rates for 2015-16 but extended benefits to middle-class by increasing the limit of deduction on health insurance premium from Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000.For senior citizens, it will go up from Rs 20,000 to Rs 30,000 and for those above 80 years, not covered by health insurance, deduction of Rs 30,000 towards expenditure on medical treatment will be allowed.Combining these incentives with others including an enhanced deduction of Rs 1.5 lakh on account of contribution to pension fund as against Rs 1 lakh now, the relief of tax deductions under various sections, including 80C and 80CCD, go up to Rs 4.42 lakh.The transport allowance exemption has been doubled to Rs 1,600. With the levy of 2 per cent additional surcharge, the total surcharge on 'super-rich' individuals with an income of over Rs 1 crore, becomes 12 per cent as against 10 per cent now. In the case of domestic companies having income between Rs 1 crore and Rs 10 crore, it will be 7 per cent and 12 per cent for firms with income above Rs 10 crore.Presenting the Budget in the Lok Sabha, Jaitley announced fresh measures to tackle blackmoney, including a comprehensive legislation that will make concealment of income and assets abroad a punishment with rigorous imprisonment of 10 years.Stashing blackmoney abroad will be made a non- compoundable offense, providing for a penalty of 300 per cent of tax on concealed income and assets. The concealed assets and income will be taxable at the maximum marginal rate and no deduction and exemptions will be allowed. It will be made a predicate offence.In a bid to encourage foreign investors, Jaitley announced deferring of the implementation of controversial GAAR (General Anti-Avoidance Rules) by 2 years.The Budget also provided for increased funding of Rs 70,000 crore for infrastructure as also higher allocation for social sector schemes like MNREGA.It decided to re-issue tax-free infra bonds and announced introduction of a sovereign gold bond as an alternative to purchasing metal gold. The bond will carry a fixed rate of interest and will be redeemable in cash on the face value of gold.The social sector spending for poor and disadvantaged have been kept at allocation of Rs 68,968 crore to education sector, Rs 33,152 crore for health, Rs 77,526 crore for rural development including MNREGA, and Rs 22,407 crore for housing and urban development.Defence expenditure has been pegged at Rs 2,22,370 crore for 2015-16, up by 11 per cent over Rs 2,46,727 crore in the current fiscal.The Budget estimates for 2015-16 pegs the non-plan expenditure at Rs 13,12,200 crore and plan spending at Rs 4,65,277 crore. Total expenditure has been estimated at Rs 17,77,477 crore.Gross tax receipts are estimated to be Rs 14,49,490 crore. Devolution to states will be Rs 5,23,958 crore and states will get Rs 9,19,842 crore. Non tax revenues are estimated at Rs 2,21,733 crore.The fiscal deficit has been pegged at 3.9 per cent of the GDP in 2015-16 against 4.1 per cent in current fiscal while the revenue deficit has been put at 2.8 per cent of GDP.The Finance Minister announced plans to bring fiscal deficit down to 3 per cent over the next two years.In indirect taxes, the Budget reduced basic customs duty on raw materials, excise duty on leather footwear while excise duty on cigarettes is being increased by 25 per cent on cigarettes exceeding 65 mm length and by 15 per cent for cigarettes of other length.Excise duty on variety of electronics and hardware goods has been reduced. This includes wafers of manufacture of IC for smart cards, mobile phones and inputs for use of LED drivers and LED lights.100 per cent deduction, other than CSR contributions, has been allowed for donations to Swachh Bharat and Clean Ganga Funds.While the direct tax proposals will involve a revenue outgo of Rs 8,315 crore, the indirect tax proposals are expected to yield Rs 23,383 crore. The net impact of all tax proposals would be a revenue gain of Rs 15,068 crore.The education cess of 2 per cent and 1 per cent higher education cess is proposed to be continued in the next year for all tax payers.Jaitley said the Indian Economy has turned around dramatically in the last nine months with the real GDP growth expected to accelerate to 7.4 per cent, making India the fastest growing large economy in the world.Growth next fiscal will be between 8 to 8.5 per cent and aiming for a double-digit rate seems feasible very soon.He said macro-economic stability has been restored and conditions created for sustainable poverty elimination, job creation and durable double-digit economic growth.India, he said, has now embarked on two game changing reforms -- GST and the JAM Trinity - Jan Dhan, Aadhar and Mobile - to implement direct transfer of benefits.GST will put in place a state-of-the art indirect tax system by April 1, 2016 while the JAM Trinity will allow transfer benefits in a leakage-proof, well-targetted and cashless manner.Jaitley said a Monetary Policy Framework Agreement has been concluded with RBI to keep inflation below 6 per cent.The Finance Minister counted five major challenges faced by the Indian economy which are agricultural income under stress, weak private sector investment in infrastructure, decline in manufacturing, resource crunch in view of higher devolution in taxes to states and maintaining fiscal discipline.Assuring that the challenging fiscal deficit target of 4.1 per cent of GDP this fiscal will be met, he said the Government was firm to reach fiscal deficit target of 3 per cent of GDP, which will be achieved in three years rather than two years.Jaitley emphasized on the need to cut subsidy leakages. To achieve it, the Government is committed to the process of rationalizing subsidies.He said the direct transfer of benefits, started mostly in scholarship schemes, will be further expanded with a view to increasing the number of beneficiaries from the present one crore to 10.3 crore.An allocation of Rs 5,300 crore to support micro- irrigation, watershed development and the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana has been made in the Budget.In order to support the agriculture sector with the help of effective agriculture credit with a focus on small and marginal farmers, the Finance Minister proposed to allocate Rs 25,000 crore to the corpus of Rural Infrastructure Development fund (RIDF) set up in NABARD, Rs 15,000 crore for Long Term Rural Credit Fund; Rs 45,000 crore for Short Term Cooperative Rural Credit Refinance Fund and Rs 15,000 crore for Short Term RRB Refinance Fund.He said the Government has set up an ambitious target of Rs 8.5 lakh crore of agricultural credit and proposes to create a Micro Units Development Refinance Agency (MUDRA) Bank, with a corpus of Rs 20,000 crore, and credit guarantee corpus of Rs 3,000 crore, which will refinance Micro-Finance Institutions through a Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana.Announcing new insurance schemes, he said Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana will cover accidental death risk of Rs 2 lakh for a premium of just Rs 12 per year and the Atal Pension Yojana will provide a defined pension, depending on the contribution.The Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana will cover both natural and accidental death risk of Rs 2 lakh on a premium of Rs 330 per year for the age group 18-50.

The new social security schemes being launched by the government are a natural follow-through of the Prime Ministers Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) and are a reflection of the pro-poor policies of the Modi government, Union Minister of State for Industries and Commerce Nirmala Sitharaman has said.Speaking at the State-level inauguration of three social security insurance and pension schemes being floated by the Union government here on Saturday, Ms. Sitharaman said the government was very sensitive to the needs of the people at large and that the three schemes would give them an assurance of a social security or a safety net which they never had before.Ms. Sitharaman said that the schemes were not aimed at any specific category of people but she felt strongly that they should benefit the women in the households. The women who run the house and take care of the family all their life  the women who never retire, the woman who are mostly never included in insurance schemes they should also have the assurance of some social security benefit when they cross 60 years, she said.The government has ensured that the schemes are well-crafted and well-calibrated and that the processes have been so simplified that a person, regardless of his health or status, only need to walk into a bank and sign a consent form that his premium for the year  either Rs.12 or Rs.330 as the scheme may be  is deducted from his bank account on June 1.Banks should explain to citizens that the onus is on them and the insurance companies to stand by the scheme. The government is committed to giving the financial support to these schemes so that every person in the country is covered by either an insurance or a pension scheme, Ms. Sitharaman said. The schemes  Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana, and the Atal Pension Yojana  were formally launched in the State by Governor P. Sathasivam.

Workers hired through multiple contractors by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (DMRC) have alleged that companies denied them their minimum wages and allotted fake Provident Fund (PF) and health insurance accounts to siphon off their money.Officials said that while they were aware of workers complaints, they had not yet blacklisted any company, despite the fact that the DMRC paid a share of workers PF, which runs into several crores, as part of contractors bills.The DMRC employs over 4,900 workers through more than 19 contractors to work as ticket-vending operators, security guards, and housekeepers who clean and sweep metro stations.Rajni Saxena (40) worked as a ticket vendor at Akshardham metro station till January, and was diagnosed with pyelonephritis, an infection in her kidneys, last year.She has regularly corresponded with 11 public offices. Among those she petitioned were President Pranab Mukherjee, the Labour and Employment Ministry, DMRC, and Employees Provident Fund (EPF) Office during weeks of hospitalisation last year and even after undergoing a kidney surgery three weeks back.Since last December, she has fought the case at the Regional Labour Commissioners office against her former employer Bedi & Bedi Associates Ltd. for allotting fake PF and health insurance accounts. Economic Offences Wing of the Crime Branch is now investigating the complaint of Ms. Saxena and 58 of her colleagues.We would work all 30 days without weekly offs but be paid for 15-20 days. On paper our wage was Rs. 8100 but they would pay only Rs. 4500, that too, after three-four months delay, said the mother of three at her Preet Vihar residence as she recuperated from the surgery.Ms. Saxena was allotted an Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) card which entitled her to free treatment at ESIC hospitals. But when she was referred for speciality treatment for her kidney ailment at the ESIC hospital at Jhilmil, she found there were no funds in her account. Inquiries at the ESIC office at Kishanganj by Ms. Saxena and 24 of her colleagues showed that Bedi & Bedi Co. had not contributed Rs. 25 lakh  including Rs. 6.8 lakh deducted from workers salary  to ESIC. Fourteen of the 25 workers had been allotted numbers which did not exist on government records.In December 2011, her employer agreed to provide her PF arrears in a meeting attended by DMRC DGM (Operations) Amit Jain at the Delhi governments Mediation and Conciliation Centre. Two months later, the EPF office in Wazirpur responded that the PF account numbers shown by the company did not exist in government records.DMRC officials know what is going on. But this January when Bedi & Bedis contract to provide ticket operators ended, DMRC awarded it a second contract to provide security guards, alleged Ms. Saxena. Also, the company had a contract to provide 800 ticket operators but it hired and gave login IDs to over 3,400 employees after charging Rs. 80,000-Rs. 1 lakh from each applicant. Why did DMRC officials not question why 2600 extra login IDs were provided? she demanded.DMRC officials defended their actions saying they allowed Bedi & Bedi a second contract because the company had made a prayer to the Delhi High Court that the investigation against it was still pending. They admitted that they had not been able to verify the genuineness of the PF accounts allotted by contractors. We have started paying 93 per cent of the workers through banks now and will soon introduce a biometric system for attendance, said DMRC GM (Civil) Surya Prakash.However, guards, sweepers, Acme Enterprises, A2Z Securities, and even workers hired by Prehari Security Services as guards outside the DMRC office in Connaught Place said they still did not have PF or ESIC accounts and contractors continued to pilfer over a fourth of their wages this way. Documents obtained through Right to Information (RTI) applications showed that Keshav Security Services Pvt. Ltd., a company similar to Bedi & Bedi Co., and also the largest supplier of housekeepers to DMRC, allotted two different PF account numbers to workers in 2009 and 2010.Calculating PF contributions at the rate of the 24 per cent of Rs. 7254 per month, the minimum wage for unskilled workers, about Rs. 1.26 crore is siphoned off in a year from just 607 employees.The company keeps two accounts  one for DMRC records and a separate register where they keep our accounts. I have worked here for eight years since the Metro started, but never heard of anyone getting their PF funds, said a worker who took part in the strike at 11 stations on the Blue Line on October 13.(The reporter is a Media Fellow, National Foundation for India)Employee found there were no funds in her ESIC accountRs. 1.26 crore siphoned off in a year from just 607 employees

The Communist Party of India National Council has resolved to mobilise large number of people on the issue of demonetisation and to demand high-level Supreme Court-monitored SIT probe into the corruption allegations levelled against the Prime Minister and others. The party National Council adopted a slew of resolutions on the final day of its meet here on Friday.The National Council has decided to observe a week-long Expose Modi Misadventure programme throughout the country between January 3 and 10, when demonstrations, seminars and meetings will be organised with the slogan Hisab do-Jawab do (give accounts, give answers).Briefing the media after conclusion of the conclave, party national general secretary Suravaram Sudhakar Reddy described the demonetisation move as disastrous decision, taken without any heed to consequences. Introduction of Rs. 2,000 note defies logic, as it makes stashing of black money easier.The party will observe Save Constitution Day on January 26, in protest against the covert moves to silence the judiciary, and January 30 will be observed as the Defend Secularism Day to mark Mahatma Gandhis assassination. On January 22, rallies will be taken out in campaign against onslaught against Dalits.The Council has appealed to people to defeat the Akali-BJP alliance in Punjab and BJP in Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Manipur. The party will make efforts to strengthen Left unity, and support the Left, democratic, and secular forces in fighting the fascistic onslaught on people.Another resolution demanded reversal of the Centres decision on Employees Provident Fund interest rate cut and the reduction in Employees State Insurance benefits.The Council expressed anguish at the refusal of the Supreme Court to take cognizance of the corruption allegations against the Prime Minister and others in the Sahara-Birla diaries case.To save Modis skin, Salman Khurshid and Sheila Dixits names too are being protected. We want to know about the quid pro quo arrangements behind this and we demand a thorough enquiry into this and other allegations, Mr. Reddy said.BJP manipulatingCPI general secretary Suravaram Sudhakar Reddy expressed apprehensions that the Bharatiya Janata Party could be trying to manipulate the current political developments in Tamil Nadu for its rise in the State.Recalling the States long history of Dravidian movement at a press conference here on Friday, Mr.Reddy said the political parties that emerged out of the movement had always been anti-religion, which might be destroyed with the entry of BJP.Questioning the basis of M.Venkaiah Naidus statement that AIADMK was ideologically close to the BJP, Mr. Reddy said the recent developments gave rise to doubts that the BJP was trying to take advantage of the vacuum left by former chief minister Jayalalithaas death. It is acceptable if it is done in a democratically, but the Centre is seemingly trying to frighten the AIADMK leaders into rallying behind the BJP, he alleged.

Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar on Tuesday said over 6 crore EPFO accounts will be credited with interest amount at 8.65% rate for 2018-19 ahead of the festival season.The Central Board of Trustees  the apex decision-making body of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO)  had approved 8.65% interest rate for the last fiscal on February 21, this year.The proposal was sent for the concurrence of the Finance Ministry. Once approved by the Finance Ministry, the EPFO would credit the interest amount at 8.65% rate in subscriber accounts and settle claims on this rate.At present, the EPFO is settling PF withdrawal claims at 8.55% interest rate, which was approved for 2017-18....Ahead of the festival season, over 6 crore EPFO subscribers would get 8.65% interest for 2018-19, Mr. Gangwar told reporters on the sidelines of the National Safety Awards function.On the delay in notifying EPF interest rate, the Minister said, Finance Minister (Nirmala Sitharaman) is busy these days. She has the file (proposal for EPF interest rate for 2018-19). She does not disagree on this. The 8.65% rate of interest approved by us would be provided to EPFO subscribers for 2018-19. It should be done in few days.Talking about new infrastructure to be set through bodies under the Labour Ministry in the two union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladhak, the Minister said, The Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) would open a 30-bed hospital in Leh and 100-bed hospital in Srinagar. Besides, the EPFO would open its offices in Srinagar and Jammu, and if needed in Leh also.After the abrogation of special status for Jammu and Kashmir, as many as 106 central laws would be implemented in the two Union Territories from October 31, 2019. Therefore, the central government needs to create infrastructure to enable implementation of those laws in the new Union Territories.On the issue of unemployment, he said, The number of workers increased by 2 crore in all those establishment where 20 or more workers work in last three years. Their number increased from six crore to eight crore now. We are also working for over 40 crore unorganised sector workers in the country.About having a true picture of employment scenario in the country, he said, We are also working on employment generation data from all those businesses where only one to two people work. They have got loans from the government. It would take one more year to firm up unemployment data.

NEW DELHI: Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley on Friday is likely to discuss the issue of some bankers depositing Re 1 in Jan Dhan accounts to keep the number of zero balance account low.The quarterly review meeting of PSU banks heading with Finance Minister is scheduled for Friday, to assess the first quarter performance of public sector banks and financial institutions, sources said.In addition to this discussion on the issues of credit growth, bad loan situation, and efforts taken by the banks and the legislative steps taken by the government to expedite recovery are also part of the agenda.Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) would also be reviewed by Jaitley.Besides, he will review the progress made by Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency (MUDRA) and Stand Up India programme, the sources said.Aimed to help the cash strapped banks in August government announced infusion of `22,915 crore capital in 13 lenders including SBI and Indian Overseas Bank to revive loan growth that has hit a two-decade low.Bank of India, Dena Bank, and Central Bank of India and a few others had reported losses for the quarter ended June 30, due to a sharp jump in provisions for NPAs on account of an asset quality review mandated by the RBI in December 2015.On Thursday, Finance Ministry reiterated that there was no requirement of minimum balance in the PMJDY accounts. But the review meeting is expected to discusss, specific instances where Re 1 was deposited by bankers.Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana also aims to provide financial services, deposit accounts, remittances and overdraft facility. It also seeks to inculcate banking habit and create credit histories of account holders, thereby facilitating them to access overdraft/credit from banks.

Around 300 blindfolded temporary sanitary workers working with Tirunelveli Corporation laid siege to the office of the urban civic body here on Friday seeking regularisation of their service and enhanced wages on a par with the permanent conservancy workers.The protesting temporary sanitary workers said they, who were working with the Corporation for the past 13 years on contract basis or through the self-help groups, were getting the daily wages ranging from Rs. . 168 to Rs. .228 while the permanent workers were getting wages up to Rs. . 692 a day.Since this is against the Supreme Court ruling and the temporary sanitary workers cannot even feed their families properly with the meagre sum they are getting as wages, the services of temporary sanitary workers who had served the Corporation for more than two years should be regularised. Moreover, the Corporation should ensure equal pay for all sanitary workers, the protesters appealed.They also said steps should be taken to provide social security schemes such as Employees State Insurance, health insurance, employees provident fund, identity card etc. to those who had worked 2 to 13 years.Since the population of the Tirunelveli Corporation was growing steadily, strength of sanitary workers should be increased to 2,500 and they should be provided with uniform, footwear, gloves, boot, weekly holiday with wages, Pongal incentive etc. The basic tool for sanitary work like broom, spade, trash, pushcart etc. should be given by the Corporation, the protesters said.The protesters representatives submitted a petition highlighting their demands in the Commissioners Office.

Ravichandran has been roped in by the Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank as the brand ambassador for certain schemes.If you wish to have the details of the Atal Pension Yojana or other such Centrally-sponsored schemes, just give a missed call to 8655019935 and you will get a reply from none other than actor Ravichandran.Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank (KVGB) has roped in Mr. Ravichandran, popularly known as Crazy Star, as the brand ambassador for this special facility. Releasing the publicity material for the project at a function here on Monday, Mr. Reddy said KVGB decided to rope in the actor to talk on these issues considering the need to reach out to the common people to help them enrol under schemes such as the Prime Ministers Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Bima Suraksha Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and the banks Janashakti easy loan scheme.The actor too has conceded to the banks offer, Mr. Reddy said. Mr. Ravichandrans services would be utilised for the promotion of the governments social security schemes and the banks packages for the people, especially the farmers and rural residents, Mr. Reddy said.The schemes include Atal Pension Yojana and Prime Ministers Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana

The government has made biometric identification Aadhaar mandatory for all post office deposits, PPF, the National Savings Certificate scheme and Kisan Vikas Patra.Existing depositors have been given time till December 31, 2017 to provide the 12-digit unique identification number.Ministry of Finance has issued four separate Gazette notifications making Aadhaar mandatory for opening all post office deposit accounts, Public Provident Fund (PPF), National Savings Certificate scheme and Kisan Vikas Patra deposits.Provided that where Aadhaar number has not been assigned, the depositor shall submit proof of application of enrolment for Aadhaar, the notification dated September 29 said.Existing depositors who have not provided Aadhaar number at the time of application for such deposit shall submit his Aadhaar number to the post office savings bank or deposit office concerned, on or before December 31, 2017, it added.The government has already made quoting Aadhaar mandatory for bank deposits, obtaining mobile phone and several other utilities to weed out benami deals and blackmoney.Last month, it extended the deadline for obtaining Aadhaar for availing government schemes and subsidies by three months to December 31. Earlier, those who did not have Aadhaar were asked to procure it by September 30.As many as 135 schemes (of 35 ministries) including the free cooking gas (LPG) to poor women, kerosene and fertiliser subsidy, targeted public distribution system (PDS) and MGNREGA will be covered by the extension.As a result of the review of welfare schemes covered and to provide the benefits of such schemes to all eligible beneficiaries of the scheme, it has been decided to further extend the stipulated date in all such notifications up to December 31, 2017, an order dated September 26 said.The extension would also apply for Employees Pension Scheme of 1995, scholarships, housing subsidy benefit, stipend to SC/ST trainees for coaching guidance and vocational training, stipend to handicapped and Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana.Besides, it would be applicable for national apprenticeship and skill development schemes, crop insurance schemes, interest subvention scheme, scholarship and fellowship schemes, various education programmes such as mid- day meal for children and Atal Pension Yojana.It is hereby clarified that this extension shall only apply to those beneficiaries who are not assigned Aadhaar number or those who have not yet enrolled for Aadhaar. Such beneficiaries are required to enrol for Aadhaar by December 31, 2017 and provide their Aadhaar number or enrolment ID, it had said.There will be no denial of services in the interim period.

Senior BJP leaders at the party's national ST cell meet in Bhubaneswar on Wednesday. Telegraph picture Bhubaneswar, June 17: The national executive committee of the BJP's Scheduled Tribes cell today criticised the state government for its failure to implement the Mines Mineral Development Act. Former chief minister and veteran tribal leader Giridhar Gamang also attended the meet today. Gamang, who will formally join the party tomorrow, said he had been attracted by the BJP's "pro-people" and "pro-tribal" policies. The political resolution adopted at the concluding day of the national meet claimed that the Centre had authorised the government to implement the act by formatting the rules and regulations. However, the government has done nothing in this regard so far. "The state government has not formulated any special scheme for the development of tribal people. The tribal-dominated Keonjhar district has lost nearly Rs 2,000 crore under the district mineral foundation, as the relevant law has not been formulated," the party's resolution alleged. It added that the central government is providing sufficient funds to the states for tribal development, especially in the education sector. "The government is neither providing scholarships to the tribal students regularly nor is it spending the grants released for the model schools meant for tribal children," it further alleged. Stating that the government has not been providing the minimum support price on forest produces to the tribal population, according to the Centre's directive, the morcha urged the Centre to pressurise the state to pay the dues to the tribal people. Alleging that the state government has also not been issuing land pattas to landless tribal residents, the morcha demanded the establishment of special sections at every tehsil in tribal-dominated areas. The BJP leaders also expressed concern over the growing incidence of tribal girls being subject to sexual abuse in residential schools. They also urged the Centre to institute a high-level committee to probe into the violations of the Odisha Reservation of Vacancies Act and ensure its enforcement. While the national executive criticised the government for its "anti-tribal" stance, the morcha appreciated the "pro-people" and "pro-tribal" policies of the Modi government. The morcha enlisted 10 such schemes including the Pradhanmatri Jandhan Yojana, schemes for concrete houses for all, toilets for all, and toilets in all government schools, Mudra Banks to support the micro and small enterprises, the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, the Atal Pension Yojana, the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, the Kaushal scheme, and the Vanbandhu Kalyan Yojana. The morcha also thanked the Modi government for appointing Droupadi Murmu as the governor of Jharkhand and Jual Oram as the Union tribal affairs minister. Both of them hail from the state.

Union Labour and Employment Minister M. Mallikarjun Kharge inaugurating the 13th State Conference of the SyndicateBank Employees Union in Gulbarga on Sunday.Union Labour and Employment Minister M. Mallikarjun Kharge has said the Union Government will soon come out with a National Labour Policy, adding that a draft is being prepared.Speaking after inaugurating the 13th State Conference of the SyndicateBank Employees Union here on Sunday, Mr. Kharge, however, did not spell out the salient features of the policy.He claimed the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government had taken several pro-labour measures that had benefitted the underprivileged and people working in the unorganised sector.Smart cardsMr. Kharge said that the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojna (RSBY) had benefitted over 14 crore people. So far, more than 2 crore smart cards had been distributed to the families of persons employed in the unorganised sector. Under the scheme, the family members are eligible to receive medical treatment costing a maximum of Rs. 30,000 a year.Mr. Kharge said the UPA government had brought in several amendments to legislations to benefit the working class.He said that amendments to at least eight more legislations were in the pipeline. The legislations included Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, National Commission for Safai Karamcharis Act, Mines Act, Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, he said.As part of the measures to improve healthcare for workers covered by the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), the Union government has upgraded several ESIC hospitals into super-speciality hospitals to extend advanced treatment.In Gulbarga, a medical education complex of the ESIC comprising medical, dental, nursing and paramedical colleges was coming up.

The schemes of Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, launched by the Centre will serve an answer to the countrys 70-year long quest to ensure social security of the common man, said Prakash Javadekar, Union Minister of state for Environment, Forest and Climate Change.Launching the schemes in Kochi on Saturday, the minister said that the three schemes together would serve as a comprehensive social security scheme to the people below the poverty line and hoped that Kerala would go a long way in ensuring the same to its citizen through these programmes.Unless they are secured financially, they will not be felt emotionally secured and it is the duty of our government to secure the common man in all aspects, he said.According to him, India now matches with other developed countries in the West in terms of ensuring welfare of its citizen.This scheme of pensioning the un-pensioned is the first of its kind initiative and the world has recognised it, the minister emphasised.On the occasion, the minister also distributed certificate of insurance to 10 subscribers.Minister of Excise and Fisheries K.Babu, who presided over the function, assured that the State would do its part to see it reached to the last man in the queue and urged the Centre to come up with more such schemes to instil a sense of security in them.

NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Sunday said efforts should be made to end discrimination and injustice against women. Speaking on International Women's Day, Modi denounced crimes against women, saying "our heads hang in shame", and announced that the government was setting up 'one-stop centres' besides a helpline for those facing violence, abuse or harassment."I salute the indomitable courage and stellar achievements of women. Today, we renew our pledge to make women an equal and integral part of our development journey. Our heads hang in shame when we hear of instances of crime against women. We must walk shoulder-to-shoulder to end all forms of discrimination or injustice against women," he said.Modi said the government was setting up 'one-stop centres' to provide assistance, legal advice and psychological counselling to women who face violence or abuse. The government also plans a mobile helpline to enable women to dial 181 for access to counselling and referral services.He said his government had initiated several measures aimed at bringing about a positive change in the lives of women. "That is central to our vision of India's progress and a life of dignity and opportunity for all our citizens," he said, adding that initiatives like 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' were announced to improve the child sex ratio.Another initiative introduced by the government is Sukanya Samruddhi Yojana to support marriage and education of young women.The Union budget had unveiled broad-based social security schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana.

The issue of Aadhaar seeding of bank accounts figured prominently at the District Level Review Meeting on Banking held at the Zilla Panchayat Hall here on Wednesday.Francis Borgia, Lead District Chief Manager, said that there had been seeding of Aadhaar numbers with 60 per cent of bank accounts in the district.Aadhaar seeding was a process in which Aadhaar numbers of account holders were included in the delivery database of service providers for enabling de-duplication of data. It provided Aadhaar-based authentication during service delivery. The objective of de-duplication was to clear the databases of any duplicate entries, he said.Priyanka Mary Francis, CEO of Zilla Panchayat, said that one person might more than one account or sometimes an account in four different branches. Hence, the Aadhaar seeding mostly remained at the same level, as only one bank account of a person is Aadhaar seeded and not others, she said.Mr. Borgia said that this problem could be solved if the banks asked their customers whether their account was Aadhaar seeded. Banks should take a letter from the account holders. This would go a long way in giving a near exact picture of the Aadhaar seeded accounts in the district, he said.S.S. Hegde, Regional Manager, Syndicate Bank, said that under the Kisan Credit Card scheme, there was an outstanding level of loans of Rs. 316 crore covering 34,948 card holders. As many as 22,391 credit-linked self-help groups (SHGs) in the district had outstanding loans to the tune of Rs. 433 crore.Banks had enrolled 1.82 lakh customers under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and 90,526 customers under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Beema Yojana (PMJJBY) and 6,805 customers under the Atal Pension Yojana, he said.The representatives from various government departments presented their status reports on the implementation of various government and State-sponsored schemes including Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), PMSBY, and PMJJBY.Ms. Francis directed the departmental heads to encourage their staff to get included under the insurance schemes such as PMSBY and PMJJBY.Jayaprakash Narayan, Manager, Reserve Bank of India, Bengaluru, S. Ramesh, Assistant General Manager, NABARD, were present.Aadhaar numbers are included in the delivery database to enable de-duplication of data

District-level officers should take steps to create awareness among people about the benefits provided under Central schemes, Union Minister of State for Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises G.M. Siddeshwar has said.Speaking at a meeting of district lead bank officers here on Tuesday, he said that the Union government had launched schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Jivan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Scheme and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana. These schemes should reach the actual beneficiaries to ensure their overall growth, the Minister said.Action will be initiated against officers who fails to provide information to people about these schemes and help them get the benefits, he said.In Davangere district, 99.248 people registered under the Pradhan Mantri Jivan Bima Yojana, 163,993 people under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and 1616 registered under the Atal Pension Scheme. Compensation has already been paid in one case under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana. A total of 7118 people had registered under Mudra Yonaja, he added. Commenting on the increasing cases of farm suicide in the district, Mr. Siddeshwar instructed bankers not to issue notices to farmers for repayment of loans till instructions were given and compensation should be given to all families of deceased farmers as early as possible.Compensation givenAgriculture Department Joint Director Sadashiv informed the meeting that 25 farmers had committed suicide in the district in which compensation has been provided to 10 families of deceased farmers.Seven cases had been rejected by the committee formed to look into suicide cases as there were no agriculture land or bank loans in this names. The remaining cases are in process.Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer R. Girish, Reserve Bank of India Jayaprakash Narayan and representatives of different banks were present.

Labour reforms are essential for generating investments and employment; but not at the cost of labour, said Shibu Baby John, Labour Minister in Kochi on Friday.FlexibilityReforms have to happen regarding labour laws. But when talk about flexibility in the country, we are not still prepared for hire and fire policy. We should build up a parallel system. Then only the country can go forward, the minister said in his inaugural address at a one-day seminar on Improving Industrial Relations and Employment Growth Towards Futuristic Labour Policy .The seminar was organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and Forum for Reforms in Corporate Laws in association with All India Organisation of Employers (AIOE), International Labour Organization (ILO) with the support of affiliated Chambers of FICCI in Kochi on Friday, said a FICCI release.Recent reformsThe discussions at the seminar centred on various aspects of recent labour policy reforms as seen by different stakeholders, prevention of sexual harassment at the workplace and Employees Provident Fund Scheme and Employees State Insurance Schemes reforms.Panudda Boonpala, Director, ILO India, B.P. Pant, Advisor, AIOE and FICCI and a host of industry and trade union leadersspoke.

NEW DELHI: The government is accelerating the drive to demographically authenticate bank accounts with Aadhaar even as the Supreme Court prepares to hear a batch of petitions this month that challenge making Aadhaar mandatory for social welfare schemes.The government wants to quickly reach the target of 1 billion Aadhaar-seeded accounts that are also demographically authenticated. Such accounts could be used to deliver benefits such as comprehensive social security. "This could also be the backbone in case a decision is taken on the universal basic income scheme," said a government official aware of developments.ET reported last week that the labour ministry was working on a universal social security scheme that would come free for the poorest fifth of the country at an estimated cost of Rs 1.2 lakh crore. Separately, Economic Survey 2016-17 discussed the idea of a universal basic income as a means of alleviating poverty.In a recent study, the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) estimated that India could provide a universal basic income of Rs 2,600 a year to every person if it eliminates food and energy subsidies.Around 750 million bank accounts have already been linked to Aadhaar. "The next phase was to demographically authenticate that the account holder and the Aadhaar number are of the same person and that has already been done for 48 crore accounts," said the official cited above. Demographic authentication entails matching the account holder's personal information  name, date of birth, gender and address, et al  with Aadhaar number and associated biometric data.Demographic authentication drive Will give clear data on those outside the fi nancial system Fast Forward Govt. Speeding Up Account-Aadhaar linkage Banks demographically authenticating database Data to help roll out social sector schemes 750 mn accounts linked 480 mn authenticated accounts.Another government official said an exercise has been simultaneously launched to identify unique accounts, that is, those that are not part of multiple accounts held by the same person. So far, 450 such unique accounts have been identified. "This can help us find out details on beneficiaries and to stop any leakages," he said.The government made it mandatory to link bank accounts with Aadhaar earlier this year, warning that delinked ones will cease to be operational.A Reserve Bank of India statement last week said, "The Reserve Bank clarifies that, in applicable cases, linkage of Aadhaar number to bank account is mandatory under the Prevention of Money Laundering (Maintenance of Records) Second Amendment Rules, 2017 published in the Official Gazette on June 1, 2017."Three social security programmes were launched in 2014  the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and the Atal Pension Yojana (APY)  to bring the excluded within the ambit of formal financial services. The drive is billed as the 'Jandhan to Jansuraksha' initiative.

businessUpdated: Jul 21, 2020 10:21 ISTWorking hours cannot be increased beyond eight hours a day without paying for overtime as some states have tried to do by diluting the labour laws, top officials of the Centre indicated to a parliamentary panel on Monday.The top brass of the Ministry of Labour and Employment on Monday briefed the parliamentary standing committee on labour, chaired by BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab, on changes in the labour laws effected by state governments during lockdown and issues faced by migrant workers amid the pandemic.About nine states proposed to increase the working hours from eight to twelve by diluting the labour laws, but later rolled back the decision after facing flak from various stakeholders, especially the trade unions.The parliamentary panel on labour had written to various state governments seeking explanation for diluting the labour laws.The panel members led by Mahtab questioned the central government officials about dilution in labour laws, especially increasing the working hours from eight to twelve, a source in the panel said.Responding to the panel, the labour ministry officials said the changes attempted by state governments have to be according to the proposed four labour codes. They said since India is a signatory to the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the country cannot go beyond the stipulated eight hours, sources in the panel told PTI.The officials also informed the panel that if the working hours have to be increased, it has to be done with the consent of workers and they need to be compensated with overtime or compensatory leaves, they said.The panel also questioned about the plight of migrant workers during the lockdown, to which the officials conveyed that they are widening the ambit of the definition of migrant workers.The panel members also suggested to include self-employed people such as hawkers, rickshaw-pullers and others in the definition of migrant workers, and that they should get all those benefits which they are entitled to in their native states.The panel also suggested to ease the conditions for availing benefits of the Employees State Insurance (ESI) and Employees Provident Fund (EPF) so that migrant workers can avail these benefits, sources said.ESI and EPF are self-financing and welfare scheme for workers. The members also pitched for removal of the criteria on minimum number of employees and wages to avail these two social security schemes, to which the officials responded positively, sources added.

Over 500 employees working as attendants deprived of benefits since June 2010Despite making monthly contributions towards Employees State Insurance Scheme (ESI) and Employees Provident Fund (EPF),over 500 employees working on contract as attendants in the Government Medical College and Hospital at Sector 32 (GMCH-32) have been deprived of these benefits since June 2010.To top it all,it was only recently that the GMCH authorities stopped payments to the contractor responsible for these employees. We have pulled up the contractor for harassing these employees. He has promised to comply within a week. We have checked all his documents,including challans pertaining to each month for depositing the dues for EPF and ESI, said Director Principal of GMCH-32,Dr Raj Bahadur. According to sources,the hospital was contributing its share towards these schemes and also giving monthly cheques towards the same,but these were not being deposited by the contractor in the employees accounts.When the employees approached the ESI dispensary in Sector 29,where they are entitled to get medicines free of cost,they were turned down on the pretext that since their quarterly returns were not filed,their monthly contribution has not reached the ESI Corporation.A member of the GMCH-32 Contractors Workers Union said,We have been running from pillar to post for our medical benefits since a year-and-a-half,but in vain. We regularly contribute from our salaries as per government guidelines but are not getting any benefits. Since ESI benefits are only applicable within a year,we will not get back what we had spent since June 2010 on treatment. The employees in question get Rs 6,000 per month as salary and about 15 per cent of this goes towards ESI and EPF.Moreover,in violation of the terms and conditions of the contract between the hospital and the service provider,these employees not get their salaries only after the 10th of every month. The contract lays down specifically that employees on contract will get their salaries by the 7th of every month, said an employee.As per norms,in case of deficiency in service,the hospital can forfeit the contractors security amount of Rs 20-22 lakh,said sources. But if this clause is implemented,the employees belonging to the contractor as well as will hospital services will be adversely affected.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App now

July 7, 2015 IANS 13:32 ISTThe recently concluded socio-economic caste census (SECC) is an exercise that draws considerable amount of awe for its sheer reach. The census surveyed 23.49 crore households across India using 6.4 lakh electronic handheld devices to arrive at a database of all households. It then ranked them on a relative scale of deprivation, after accounting for automatic inclusion (16.5 lakh) and exclusion of households (7.05 cr) based on a set of predetermined indicators.The government's intent in using the data thrown up by the SECC is quoted in its own press release where it states that "SECC provides an opportunity to simultaneously address the multi-dimensionality of poverty by addressing the deprivation of households in education, skills, housing, employment, health, nutrition, water, sanitation, social and gender mobilization and entitlement." This article attempts to assess whether the government's investment into the social sector is indicative of this intent. In short, is the government putting its money where its mouth is? The answer is a loud no.The SECC results state that there are 5.37 crore households who are landless and derive a majority of their income from manual labour. It also states that in close to 75 percent of rural households, the main earning member earns less than Rs.5000 per month. The MGNREGA, legislation passed to provide employment in the form of manual labour to all rural households on demand, is an initiative of the government to enhance the basic incomes of this very constituency. However, MGNREGA allocations have registered a continuous dip in real terms - from 0.45 percent of the GDP at market prices in 2011-12, to a meagre 0.32 percent in 2014-15. The stagnant budgetary allocation to MGNREGA in real terms, coupled with inadequate and delayed release of funds to the states has effectively attacked the basic legal mandate of the programme.As per the SECC, there are 68.96 lakh female-headed households with no adult members between the age of 16-59. Given the precariousness of the economic situation that such households may be prone to, the presence of preventive social security mechanisms specifically targeting such households should be a priority.However, the government's will as demonstrated by its budgetary outlays are contradictory. Allocation for women specific schemes such as Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, National Mission for Empowerment of Women, Rajiv Gandhi Scheme for empowerment of Adolescent Girls fell from Rs.1,075 crore (2014-15 RE) to Rs.587 crore (2015-16 BE).The SECC results state that fewer than 10 percent of youth of rural households make it to the higher secondary level or above and just 3.41 percent of households have a family member who is at least a graduate. Households with no literate adult above the age of 25 amount to a staggering 4.21 crore. In light of this dismal statistic, the government's allocation to a significant sector like education is even more shocking.The allocation to Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, the only centrally-funded intervention designed to achieve universalized elementary education fell from Rs.24,380 crore (2014-15 RE) to Rs.19,800 crore (2015-16 BE), while the allocation for the Department of School Education and Literacy fell from Rs.46,805 crore (2014-15 RE) to Rs.42,200 crore (2015-16).Then, given the unanimous scientific agreement on the role of adequate nutrition in enhancing children's learning abilities through the education system, the budget of the Integrated Child Development Services fell from Rs.18,391 crore (2014-15 RE) to an unacceptable Rs.8,449 crore (2015-16).Rural housing seemed to be one of the fortunate sectors that received the government's attention, at least in terms of public articulation. The SECC results have confirmed the need for such attention, given that 13.25 percent of rural households live with only one room, a temporary wall and a temporary roof. But the trend of cutting social sector budgets continues unabated even in this case. The allocation of Indira Awas Yojana - the only centrally funded intervention to provide rural housing - fell from Rs.16,000 crore (2014-15 RE) to Rs.10,025 crore (2015-16 BE).These are only a few examples that indicate how the government is not adequately prepared, and intends to continue being ill-prepared if we are to assess its intent, through its budgetary decisions, to deal with the problem of providing basic entitlement of quality education and health to households deprived on multiple counts as reflected in the SECC.It is worth noting that the only flagship rural development interventions introduced by the current Government - Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Atal Pension Yojana are ones that do not involve any budgetary commitment for putting in place minimum infrastructure to be able to deliver tangible basic services.The union budget outlay for all social sector ministries have registered a drop from 1.92 percent of the GDP (2013-14) to a deplorable 1.68 percent in 2015-16. In this context, no number of investor summits, foreign MoUs and attempts at canvassing an image of India to the outside world can compensate for the irreversible steps being taken to slowly dismantle its social sector infrastructure through inadequate funding.

Anganwadi workers here will join the agitation of the Anganwadi Workers and Helpers Association (AWHA) affiliated to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) on July 10 to press for their various demands that include recognition of them as government employees and implementation of pension, Employees Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance schemes.AWHA district secretary Mary Job said at a press conference here on Tuesday that 3,000 of the total 5,000 Anganwadi workers and helpers in the district would participate in the rail blockade in the district as part of their nationwide agitation under the aegis of the All India Federation of Anganwadi Workers and Helpers Association on July 10.Apart from social security facilities such as pension and EPF benefits, the AWHA was also demanding hike of the minimum wages to Rs. 15,000.The charter of demands also included regularisation of temporary employees.All Anganwadis would remain closed on July 10, she said.The association said that the workload of the Anganwadi employees had increased as they were employed for conducting various surveys for the government.This was affecting the functioning of the Anganwadis as children suffered in the absence of Anganwadi teachers.She said that though the association was assured that the supply of food for children in Anganwadis would not be handed over to any other agencies, there was concern among the Anganwadi workers and helpers that eventually the Central governments policy of entrusting food supply to private agencies would be replicated in the State.CITU district vice-president K. Ashokan was also present at the press meet.Minimum wages of Rs. 15,000 sought3,000 Anganwadi workers to strike

By IANSNEW DELHI: Ahead of the Women's Day, Finance Ministry on Tuesday released figures saying its financial inclusion policies that include Stand-Up India Scheme, Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana, Jan-Dhan Yojana have benefited women and women entrepreneurs largely over the last six years.Stand-Up India Scheme was launched in 2016 to promote entrepreneurship at grass root level for economic empowerment and job creation. The objective of this scheme is to facilitate bank loans between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 1 crore to at least one Scheduled Caste (SC) or Scheduled Tribe (ST) borrower and at least one woman borrower per bank branch of Scheduled Commercial Banks (SCBs) for setting up a Greenfield enterprise.As on Feb 17, 2020, more than 81 per cent account holders under Stand Up India Scheme are women. A total of 73,155 accounts have been opened for women. Rs 16712.72 crore has been sanctioned for women account holders out of which Rs 9106.13 crore has been disbursed.Atal Pension Yojana (APY) as on February 22, 2020, had more than 93 lakh subscribers (43 per cent) as women out of a total of around 2.15 crore subscribers, it said in a statement.Under Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana (PMMY) which was launched on April 8, 2015 for providing loans up to 10 lakh to the non-corporate, non-farm small/micro enterprises has loans are classified as MUDRA loans under PMMY has 70 per cent women borrowers. These loans are given by Commercial Banks, RRBs, Small Finance Banks, MFIs and NBFCs.As on January 31, 2020, more than 22.53 crore loans have been sanctioned since the launch of the scheme. Out of this, more than 15.75 crore loans were extended to women, thereby 70 per cent of the total loan borrowers are Women.Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) that envisages universal access to banking facilities with at least one basic banking account for every adult, financial literacy, access to credit, insurance and pension has 20.33 crore beneficiaries out of 38.13 crore beneficiaries are women which amounts to 53 per cent.As on Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) - PMJJBY was launched on May 9, 2015. The objective of this scheme is to create a social security system for the poor and underprivileged in the age group of 18-50 years by providing a renewable life insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh with just a premium of Rs 330.Under PMJJBY, 40.70 per cent enrolments are of women members and 58.21 per cent of claim beneficiaries are women as on January 31, 2020. A total of 1,91,96,805 women have enrolled out of 4,71,71,568 enrolments. Total 95,508 claims have been paid to female beneficiaries out of a total of 1,69,216 claims paid, as on January 31, 2020.Under Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) - to provide a very affordable insurance scheme for the poor and underprivileged people in the age group of 18 to 70 years with a bank account at a premium of Rs 12 per annum, risk coverage of Rs 2 lakh for accidental death and full disability and Rs 1 lakh for partial disability, 41.50 per cent enrolments are of women members and 61.29 per cent of claim beneficiaries are women as on January 31, 2020

The direct benefit transfer programme has resulted in Rs 50,000 crore savings for the government in the last three years as funds were directly transferred to 32 crore needy people, BJP President Amit Shah has said.The Aadhaar-linked DBT scheme, he said, has helped in plugging leakages, removing middlemen and eliminating ghost beneficiaries.As many as 32 crore people received funds in form of subsidies directly into their bank accounts resulting in savings of nearly Rs 50,000 crore to the exchequer over the last three years, he told PTI in an interaction.Citing various achievements of the Narendra Modi-led government, Mr Shah said, both direct and indirect taxes have witnessed a growth rate of 20 per cent, which is unprecedented in the history of independent India."On the economic front, the BJP-led government has performed very well. We are the fastest growing nation in the world and inflation by and large is under control," he said. Listing out the government's high points during 2016-17, Mr Shah said, there were many like "highest urea production, largest gas connection distribution, record coal and power production, highest national highway and rural road construction, vehicle manufacturing, biggest ever software export and highest ever forex reserve".Besides, he said his party "BJP had achieved the greatest political gain during the year".He further said that interest rates have been reduced remarkably and fiscal deficit has been reined in at 3.9 per cent in 2015-16.It was under the NDA regime, the country saw a 5.1 per cent industrial growth and 4 per cent agriculture growth and also 45 per cent rise in FDI inflows, the BJP national president said, adding that exports also surged after registering a slowdown.As a result, he said, per capita income has increased by Rs 10,000 to cross Rs 1-lakh mark at Rs 1.03 lakh. On soaring financial markets, Mr Shah said both key indices Sensex and Nifty have touched their record highs, triggered by the positive sentiment.With regard to Goods and Services Tax (GST), he said, "We have moved ahead with it and it will be implemented soon." The government intends to implement the GST from July 1. On other key initiatives, he said that under the Ujjwala Yojana, more than 2 crore women from BPL families have been given LPG connections and the target is to take this number to 5 crore by 2019.As far as the power sector is concerned, Mr Shah said, nearly 13,500 dark villages electrified out of a target of 18,456.Power generation has increased by 30 per cent and the government has reduced electricity consumption by installing 23 crore LED lamps.As part of government's effort to fund the unfunded, more than 7.45 crore entrepreneurs have been given bank loans under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, he said.Under the Mudra Yojana, a loan of up to Rs 50,000 is given under 'Shishu' plan, between Rs 50,000 to 5 lakh under 'Kishore', and between 5 lakh to 10 lakh under 'Tarun'. Banks have sanctioned more than 22,000 applications worth Rs 4,699 crore under 'Stand Up India', he said.The scheme facilitates bank loans between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 1 crore to at least one scheduled caste/scheduled tribe borrower and at least one woman borrower per bank branch for setting up greenfield enterprises.Talking about other social security schemes, he said Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) has benefited more than 16 crore since its launch in 2015 while Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), a low premium life insurance scheme, has covered over 3 crore.With regard to pension scheme, he said, the Atal Pension Yojana (APY) has covered 38.23 lakh individuals and disbursed Rs 1,344 crore.The subscribers base under the APY has reached about 53 lakh, he said, adding that 235 banks and the Department of Post are involved with the implementation of the scheme at present.Mr Shah also said that under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA), the highest ever expenditure of Rs 51,902 crore was made in 2016-17. As many as 51.3 lakh works have been completed so far in 2016-17 from an average of 25 to 30 lakh works till 2013-14, he said.As much as 47,447 km road has been constructed in 2016-17 under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana as compared to 36,449 km in the previous financial year.For more stories on three years of the Modi government, click here

While one could not get his ailing son treated for heart ailment, another lost his mother. Almost every contractual employee a t Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has such stories to tell, courtesy a scandalous contractor and inaction on the part of the hospital authorities and UT administration officials.As per the terms and conditions of the contract for providing workers on contract to GMCH-32, each contractor is bound to deposit around ` 200 a month to Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) fund, which entitles each employee to get treatment at various empanelled government hospitals in the tricity.But the contractor allegedly didnt deposit the ESIC fund of around 450 employees continuously, which led to the sufferings of the contractual workers and their families.Yashpal Singh, a hospital attendant at present posted in paediatric ward of GMCH-32, easily breaks down while sharing his story.He said his mother was admitted at the intermediate intensive care unit (IICU) of GMCH-32, and as per the contract with ESIC, his mother was entitled to free treatment.But the ESIC representatives said that we are not receiving any money in your account. You are a defaulter, so we cant help you, said Yashpal, with tears in his eyes.Ultimately, for want of treatment, his mother couldnt survive and passed away in November last year, despite spending around ` 20,000 on her treatment. Had I got support from the ESIC, I could have provided better treatment to my mother, Yashpal rued.Naresh Kumar, another attendant in the hospital, is worried about his mentally challenged son, who suffers from a congenital heart defect.When I first approached the ESIC, they turned me away saying money was not being deposited in my account. So I have started getting treatment at PGIMER on my own, he said.The GMCH-32 administration had roped in a Faridabad (Haryana)-based firm, Shree Shyam Enterprises, to provide general service personnel, including ward attendants, watchmen, gardeners, cooks, mortuary attendants, for three years in 2010.The HT had highlighted that the contractor deputed only 50% of the staff of the total strength. Since salary of each contractual employee goes to the bank account directly, in order get that money the contractor opened bank accounts of the remaining 50% ghost employees on forged documents.Thereafter, he kept withdrawing salaries in the name of nonexistent staff.Attendance cards we re required to be provided to each employee, so even those were forged by the contractor.Besides the ghost employees, he didnt deposit Employees Provident Fund and ESIC fund to the accounts of the employees. But some officials, in connivance with the contractor, allegedly kept on clearing his bills and payment despite knowing the fact that he is duping the hospital and the contractual workers.

The finance ministrys decision provides major flexibility to subscribers, who were earlier mandated to make monthly contributions or face default charges ranging between Rs 1 and Rs 10 per month. (Illustration: Pradeep Yadav)Hoping to bring in more subscribers to its recently launched guaranteed pension scheme  the Atal Pension Yojana, the finance ministry last week brought in significant relaxations that allow members to make contributions on a monthly, quarterly or half- yearly basis and also permitted early exit before the age of 60 years.The finance ministrys decision provides major flexibility to subscribers, who were earlier mandated to make monthly contributions or face default charges ranging between Rs 1 and Rs 10 per month. Also, in case of discontinuation of contribution for six months, the account would be frozen and after another 6 months, it would be closed.Further, as part of the premature withdrawal norms, subscribers who wish to exit the scheme before the age of 60 years, will only be refunded the contributions made by him to APY, along with the net actual interest earned on his contributions.Strict rules also barred pre-mature withdrawals before the age of 60 years, except in case of death of the subscriber or terminal disease when only the accumulated funds in the APY account would be transferred to the nominee or spouse.Experts have often pointed out APY to be too rigid for the vagaries of the life of unorganised sector workers. It may often be difficult to save every month, apart from the fact that not many workers may enjoy a long life to use their pension wealth.However, the finance ministrys move comes at a time, when the Employees Provident Fund Organisation or the EPFO is working to curb pre-mature withdrawals.Under the EPF scheme, 12 per cent of workers basic wages up to a monthly ceiling of Rs 15,000 and a matching contribution of 12 per cent by employers are deducted as PF contribution every month. 8.33 per cent of the employers contribution is then diverted into the EPS.But faced with a large number of premature withdrawals, EPFO is working to cap such withdrawals at 75 per cent of the total accumulation in case of loss of employment.The idea is to protect the provident fund corpus so that workers have a fallback option after retirement as they often withdraw all their savings while switching jobs. A majority of our 6 crore odd members come from blue collar jobs and this will ensure that they do not fall upon hard times in their old age, said a senior official.The cap on premature withdrawals by members would also be applicable in case of illness, marriage or higher education of a child and building of a house.As a further deterrent on premature PF withdrawals, the Finance Act, 2015 levied from June 1 tax deducted at source between 10 per cent and 34.608 per cent on such withdrawals exceeding Rs 30,000 before completion of five years of service.Further, concerns for pension or social security is steadily rising in the country as the young population gradually ages and experts have questioned the need to allow for premature withdrawal from the scheme.Allowing for premature withdrawals from a retirement saving scheme will dilute its purpose, said D Swarup, former chairman, Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority, adding that the NPS was designed to allow for premature withdrawals only in case of terminal illness or house building.While the changes do dilute the concept of the APY, but pension at the time of superannuation comes across as a very theoretical concept for many people. Pensions mean different things to different people and many consider pensions as just another savings product that should provide some form of liquidity. For instance, even in the slightly more elitist NPS, many employees often have questions on intermediate liquidity, said Amit Gopal, senior vice-president, India Life Capital Pvt Ltd.The Old Age Social and Income Security (OASIS) Project report in January 2000, which was in a way the genesis for the National Pension System, had projected that the number of aged in the country will rise to 179 million by 2026, comprising 13.3 per cent of the population, adding that nearly 90 per cent of the workforce was not eligible to participate in any scheme to save for old age security .According to the Ministry of Statistics, GOI, in India the elderly (aged 60 years or above) accounted for only 7.4 per cent of the population in 2001 which has increased to 8.4 per cent of the population in 2011. While India is young with a median age of 25, the proportion of the elderly is set to rise to 10.7 per cent of the population by 2021 against a background of rapid transformation in household structures, said the PFRDA in a recent note, adding that the average life expectancy at the age of 60 years is approximately 18 years in India.Launched on May 9 this year, the APY is focused on unorganised sector workers and aims to ensure dignified life in old age, promising a guaranteed minimum pension of Rs 1,000, Rs 2,000, Rs 3,000, Rs 4,000 and Rs 5,000 to unorganised sector workers at the age of 60 years based on contributions.To encourage enrollments, the government also promised to co-contribute 50 per cent of the total contribution or Rs 1,000 per year, whichever is lower, to the eligible APY account holders who join the scheme till December 2015, for a period of five years.The relaxations were introduced by the finance ministry after wide consultations as it was facing an uphill task in enrolling members for the scheme, as against the other two accident and life insurance schemes that were simultaneously launched.Certain suggestions have been received, including from the states, regarding providing certain relaxations for informal sector workers, having intermittent incomes, from the provision of mandatory monthly contributions under the scheme of APY and also removing the penal provisions for non-contribution under APY to make the scheme more viable. The matter has been examined and the necessary revisions have been made in APY to increase the acceptability of the scheme amongst informal sector workers, the finance ministry said in a statement.Under the new provisions, that are in favour of the subscriber, the APY account will not be deactivated and closed till the balance with self-contributions minus the government co-contributions becomes zero due to deduction of maintenance charges and fees. Further, the penalty on delayed payment has been also simplified to Re 1 per month for contribution of Rs 100 for each delayed monthly payment instead of different slabs given earlier, the ministry added.While the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana that provides a Rs 2 lakh life cover had 2.75 crore subscribers by August 22, the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana that gives a Rs 2 lakh disability and accident insurance had 8.16 crore subscribers. In sharp contrast, the APY had just 6.83 lakh members in the period.Concerned about the low enrollments, financial service secretary Hasmukh Adhia had said recently that the government is planning to push the product more through measures such as appointing private agents.The response to the APY is not so much as we expected it to be, so we need to push the product, he had said.Accordingly, the pension regulator PFRDA is expected to appoint private agents or retirement advisors to sell the APY as against only banks which currently market the product to their customers. The rationale is that bank branches may often not have the time to explain the product to their customers, which can instead be done by agents.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App

At present, the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) subscribers can seek advance under Para 68-J of the EPF Scheme for their and their dependents treatment for illness. At present, the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) subscribers can seek advance under Para 68-J of the EPF Scheme for their and their dependents treatment for illness.Over four crore members of the retirement fund body EPFO can now withdraw funds from their EPF account for treatment of illness and purchasing equipment to deal with handicap without medical certificates.The Employees Provident Fund Scheme 1952 is amended to do away with the requirement of submission of various certificates and proformas for seeking advance for treatment of illness and purchasing equipment required in case of physical disabilities.Now, the subscribers can seek fund withdrawal from their EPF account on various grounds by using a composite form along with a self-declaration.The Labour Ministry has amended the clause 68-J and 68-N of the Employees Provident Fund Scheme 1952 for enabling members to take non-refundable advances from their account for treatment of illness and buying equipment to minimise the hardship on account of handicap, a senior official said today.At present, the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) subscribers can seek advance under Para 68-J of the EPF Scheme for their and their dependents treatment for illness.Besides, the physically challenged member can seek advance for purchasing equipment to deal with handicap under Para 68-N.The official further said the Labour Ministry issued a notification with regard to the amendment on April 25, 2017.Under the Paragraph 68-J, the members can seek advance from the fund for treatment of illness in certain cases including hospitalisation lasting for one month or more, or major surgical operation in a hospital, or in case they are suffering from TB, leprosy, paralysis, cancer, mental derangement or heart ailment.The advance under this Para 68-J was granted on only after receipt of certificate from employers or employees that the member or his dependent is not covered under the Employees State Insurance Scheme facility and benefits.Besides, the members were required to submit a certificate from a doctor of the hospital that the member or his dependent has been hospitalised or requires hospitalisation for one month or more, or that a major surgical operation had or has become necessary.Now after the amendment, a member would no longer be required to submit any medical certificate or any other certificate or document or any proforma whatsoever to avail advance under paragraph 68-J.Under Paragraph 68-N, the physically handicapped member can seek advance to purchase equipment to minimise hardship on account of handicap.The withdrawal under this clause was allowed only after submission of medical certificate from a competent medical practitioner or an officer authorised by the EPFO.Under Para 68-J and 68-N, the amount advanced shall not exceed the members basic wages and dearness allowance for six months or his own share of contributions with interest thereon or the cost of the equipment, whichever is lower.For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App now

NEW DELHI: The direct benefit transfer programme has resulted in Rs 50,000 crore savings for the government in the last three years as funds were directly transferred to 32 crore needy people, BJP president Amit Shah has said.The Aadhaar-linked DBT scheme , he said, has helped in plugging leakages, removing middlemen and eliminating ghost beneficiaries.As many as 32 crore people received funds in form of subsidies directly into their bank accounts resulting in savings of nearly Rs 50,000 crore to the exchequer over the last three years, he told PTI in an interaction.Citing various achievements of the Narendra Modi-led government, Shah said, both direct and indirect taxes have witnessed a growth rate of 20 per cent, which is unprecedented in the history of independent India."On the economic front, the BJP-led government has performed very well. We are the fastest growing nation in the world and inflation by and large is under control," he said.Listing out the government's high points during 2016-17, Shah said, there were many like "highest urea production, largest gas connection distribution, record coal and power production, highest national highway and rural road construction, vehicle manufacturing, biggest ever software export and highest ever forex reserve".Besides, he said his party "BJP had achieved the greatest political gain during the year".He further said that interest rates have been reduced remarkably and fiscal deficit has been reined in at 3.9 per cent in 2015-16.It was under the NDA regime, the country saw a 5.1 per cent industrial growth and 4 per cent agriculture growth and also 45 per cent rise in FDI inflows, the BJP national president said, adding that exports also surged after registering a slowdown.As a result, he said, per capita income has increased by Rs 10,000 to cross Rs 1-lakh mark at Rs 1.03 lakh.On soaring financial markets, Shah said both key indices Sensex and Nifty have touched their record highs, triggered by the positive sentiment.With regard to Goods and Services Tax (GST), he said, "We have moved ahead with it and it will be implemented soon."The government intends to implement the GST from July 1.On other key initiatives, he said that under the Ujjwala Yojana , more than 2 crore women from BPL families have been given LPG connections and the target is to take this number to 5 crore by 2019.As far as the power sector is concerned, Shah said, nearly 13,500 dark villages electrified out of a target of 18,456.Power generation has increased by 30 per cent and the government has reduced electricity consumption by installing 23 crore LED lamps.As part of government's effort to fund the unfunded, more than 7.45 crore entrepreneurs have been given bank loans under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, he said.Under the Mudra Yojana, a loan of up to Rs 50,000 is given under 'Shishu' plan, between Rs 50,000 to 5 lakh under 'Kishore', and between 5 lakh to 10 lakh under 'Tarun'.Banks have sanctioned more than 22,000 applications worth Rs 4,699 crore under 'Stand Up India', he said.The scheme facilitates bank loans between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 1 crore to at least one scheduled caste/scheduled tribe borrower and at least one woman borrower per bank branch for setting up greenfield enterprises.Talking about other social security schemes, he said Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) has benefited more than 16 crore since its launch in 2015 while Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), a low premium life insurance scheme, has covered over 3 crore.With regard to pension scheme, he said, the Atal Pension Yojana (APY) has covered 38.23 lakh individuals and disbursed Rs 1,344 crore.The subscribers base under the APY has reached about 53 lakh, he said, adding that 235 banks and the Department of Post are involved with the implementation of the scheme at present.Shah also said that under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA), the highest ever expenditure of Rs 51,902 crore was made in 2016-17.As many as 51.3 lakh works have been completed so far in 2016-17 from an average of 25 to 30 lakh works till 2013-14, he said.As much as 47,447 km road has been constructed in 2016-17 under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana as compared to 36,449 km in the previous fiscal.

Demanding disbursal of their three months wage arrears, members of BSNL Contract Labourers Association staged a dharna on the General Managers Office premises at Vannarpet here on Thursday.They said they were struggling to run their families and meet the day-to-day expenses as they were not given their wages for the past three months.The Deepavali bonus of Rs. 7,000 was not given as agreed by the BSNL.The pay slip showing the workers contribution to Employees State Insurance and Employees Provident Fund should be given along with their wages, they said.District secretary of BSNL Employees Union and convenor of the struggle committee N. Soosai Maria Antony, district president S. Rajagopal, treasurer P. Rajagopal and others participated in the protest.

Microfinance business has faced challenges in the aftermath of demonetisation. However, it is a key driver of financial inclusion and an integral part of the overall banking business, said R. Baskar Babu, MD and CEO of Maharashtra-based Suryoday Small Finance Bank Ltd. In an interview, he said that microfinance institutions are on a comeback trail.With interest rates firming up, how do Small Finance Banks intend to cope, as against established banks?Rates offered by SFBs are at a 150-200 bps premium to those offered by other players, even on savings accounts. So this has led to a high proportion of savings deposits forming part of retail deposits in the first year itself. Further, we do not expect rates to go up significantly in the near term post March 2018. The key differentiator will be quality of service offering and customer experience which will drive customer acquisitionHow did demonetisation impact banks like yours that primarily had a microfinance book?Demonetisation had impacted all the players in the microfinance industry alike. In November 2016, we had a collection efficiency of 94% and today that portfolio runs with an efficiency of 97%, and on the new JLG (joint liability groups) portfolio acquired post April 2017, the collection efficiency has been restored to 99.8%.How has your cost of funds been changing?The cost of funds has [declined] by 240 basis points from the beginning of the year primarily because of low-cost deposits and borrowing from money markets post receiving the scheduled status from the RBI.What are your plans for third-party products?We are actively working on adding third-party products. Currently we distribute life, general and health insurance products, and social security schemes like Jeevan Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana.Soon we will be launching a mutual funds platform. Work for offering the Atal pension Yojana is also underway.How are you placed on deposits and loans now?We are positioned well both in terms of assets and liabilities. Currently (end of Q3 FY18), we have a deposit base of more than Rs. 500 crore a gross loan portfolio of around Rs. 1,352 crore, with a year-on-year growth of 37%.While the microfinance industry holds tremendous potential, it is yet to bounce back to normalcy in terms of delinquency ratios. Hence, our attempt is to balance the two by continuing to lend to businesses with a more intense risk control framework.What will small finance banks achieve that traditional banks couldnt?Established banks are yet to fully foray deep into the microfinance segment, and their size and scale may not allow them to recognise the needs of the micro segment of the society, which is as ambitious and as much in need of regular banking services.This gap is what the SFBs can easily cater to since SFBs have strong relationships with these customers as most of the transactions are at the clients place.Further, the branch network of SFBs is vast, and this can be leveraged to bring in financial inclusion much faster and in a more effective manner.What deposit rates do you offer?On the liabilities side, we offer CASA, FD, Tax saver FD and RD products on which we offer one of the most competitive deposit rates in the industry.A savings account can get an interest rate of up to 7.25%, whereas for an FD, the customer can earn up to 8.75% interest. For senior citizens, the interest rate offered is 9%.How is the transition taking place for you and your older microfinance customers?Our strategy has been to take small, but firm steps so that we move ahead with conviction. The first year has been about getting things right.In the next financial year, we will be focussing on conversion of our 216 microfinance branches to banking outlets, to bring doorstep banking for our microfinance customers.We want to deepen the relationship with our customers and move from being lenders to wealth creators for them, hence we are developing customised products and working towards bringing in more social security schemes.How do you compete with other institutions that have a lot more resources to garner business?Resources are not a constraint for a good business model based on sound processes.Even for us, it is not a constraint, which is why we have been successful in delivering banking services and building a healthy book. For that matter, even on the digitisation front we are proceeding one step at a time, not because of any resource constraints but because of our calibrated approach to growth.Next fiscal, the plan is to convert our 216 microfinance branches to banking outlets

The government expects to spend Rs. 2.27 lakh crore on subsidies and another Rs. 2.41 lakh crore on the social sector schemes like the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) this year.Indias workers, most of them in the informal sector, have no social security net. With the breakdown of the joint family structure this means many senior citizens spend their final years in penury. While India now enjoys the advantage of a demographic dividend of a large young population, economists have warned of a spurt in the greying population over the next decade.Indians typically havent done a good job of saving for retirement. We are trying to change that by using some principles from behavioural economics to come up with innovative products that give them the tools to look after their old age and healthcare requirements, Minister of State for Finance Jayant Sinha said, inaugurating a conference on payment banks here on Friday.We could explore whether some of the benefits and subsidies that the government gives at the State or Central level under the MGNREGA and social assistance programmes are set aside for the Atal Pension Yojana, and the government will, of course, make a matching contribution, Mr. Sinha said, adding that beneficiaries could opt for such deductions by ticking a box at the time of receiving benefits in their banks for the first time.The matching contribution could ensure that people did not slip out of the social security net because of irregular contributions or dormant pension accounts. Many pension schemes launched in the past for those living below the poverty line have failed to attain scale or continuity in contributions because of irregular cash flows in such households.Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched three social security schemes this May. The APY has managed to enrol a little over 10 lakh members, against nearly 9.2 crore people who joined the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, an accident insurance scheme. The Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, a life insurance scheme, had 2.85 crore members as of Thursday. The APY requires members to contribute according to their target pension. The government contributes a maximum of Rs. 1,000 a year to each account as an incentive.We have to come up with some innovative mechanism for people to opt for such a useful product, and they can get the benefit of long-term compounding for healthier retirement incomes, Mr. Sinha pointed out.The Finance Ministry was now focusing on such targeted interventions through financial products, as it was satisfied with the progress of financial inclusion through the Jan Dhan Yojana, aimed at helping each household to have a bank account, and the setting up of 23 new banks to expand financial access in the hinterland. Through direct benefit transfers, transactions that earlier happened at a post office or a government office are now moving through bank accounts, Mr. Sinha said.

S. Ramesh, Assistant General Manager, National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), on Thursday advised banks to concentrate on lending more under housing and education sectors.He was speaking at the quarterly meeting of the district-level review committee for banking in Udupi district here.Mr. Ramesh, who also released the Potential Linked Plan for 2017-18 prepared by the NABARD, said that the progress of banks in lending to housing and education sectors was not satisfactory in the district.K. Purushottam, Lead District Officer, Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Bengaluru, informed the latest instructions and guidelines issued by the RBI on various issues related to banking.He said that the banks had exceeded the mandatory sub-targets particularly in providing advances to weaker sections, minority communities and women. He urged banks to increase quality lending and thereby increase the credit-deposit ratio of the district.Presenting the progress under Special Focused Schemes, Francis Borgia, Lead District Chief Manager, said that under Kisan Credit Scheme, there was an outstanding level of Rs. 313.08 crore covering 24,304 card holders in the district. A total of 44,213 credit-linked self-help groups had outstanding loans to the tune of Rs. 368.37 crore. Banks had enrolled 2,07,120 customers under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, 99,975 customers under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojagana and 8,215 persons under the Atal Pension Yojana till August 31, he said.Earlier, S.S. Hegde, Regional Manager, Syndicate Bank, said that total deposits of the banking sector in the district stood at Rs. 18,962 crore registering a year-on-year growth of 11.68 per cent and total advances stood at Rs. 9,872 crore with a year-on-year growth of 50.15 per cent. The credit-deposit ratio had increased from 50.15 per cent to 52.07 per cent (over quarter), he said.

The governments plan to provide social security smart cards to workers in the unorganised sector has hit a roadblock for the second time with the Finance Ministry rejecting the latest Labour Ministry proposal to issue one card per family as an impractical idea.The Unorganised Workers Identification Number (U-WIN) scheme, first mooted in September 2014, proposed to provide a smart card to the unorganised workers for entitled to benefits under various schemes such as Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY) and Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana (AABY) as well as the Atal Pension Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana.There are around 40 crore unorganised workers in the country, which accounts for around 89 per cent of the total workforce, as per government estimates. The portable smart card would have details of bank account, mobile numbers and benefits of social security schemes that can be availed by the workers.The Labour Ministry had originally planned to give smart card directly to all the unorganised workers, but the Finance Ministry had raised objections on the huge costs that would entail.Keeping those budget constraints in mind, the labour ministry re-drafted the proposal to allocate one smart card to the head of each family instead of all workers in a household. But the Finance Ministry hasn't approved of this idea either.The expenditure finance committee (which vets projects costing above Rs.500 crore) have flagged some design related issues in the proposal. The idea to give one smart card per family was not found feasible. We will send a revised proposal, said a senior labour ministry official on condition of anonymity.The Finance Ministry has asked for individual smart cards to the unorganised workers irrespective of the cost implications, the official added.Earlier, the Labour Ministry proposed to issue around 19 crore smart cards to families at an estimated cost of around Rs.2,000 crore. Officials said the new proposal will shoot up the cost of issuing around 40 crore smart cards to around Rs.5,000 crore.The design, software and guidelines to issue individual smart cards are ready. We will send the revised proposal soon, said the Labour Ministry official, adding the proposal will then be sent to the Union Cabinet for approval.Apart from the Finance Ministry's reservations, the idea to issue smart cards to workers was also questioned by the Information Technology Ministry which had earlier written to the Labour Ministry on the issue. The IT ministry had said that issuing smart cards to unorganised workers may lead to duplication of work as the government is already in discussions to link welfare schemes with the Aadhar card. Theoretically, it may look possible. However, it will not be possible to provide labour scheme benefits with Aadhar cards. We have already conveyed to the IT Ministry that there will be a lot of connectivity issues in doing that, said another labour ministry official.Documents reviewed by The Hindu showed the original proposal of the Labour Ministry had projected a total cost of Rs.15,000-Rs.20,000 crore in the UWIN card project. While Rs.6,000 crore was estimated to be spent on the smart cards, between Rs.7,000 crore and Rs.14,000 crore alone was estimated to be spent on setting up Workers Facilitation Centres.However, another senior Labour Ministry official denied these estimates.

Rao Inderjit SinghDownload The Times of India News App for Latest City NewsSubscribe Start Your Daily Mornings with Times of India Newspaper! Order NowGURUGRAM: Union minister and Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh held a meeting with district administration officials over resumption of industrial operations on Tuesday. He directed the deputy commissioner to confer with industry associations and arrange for facilities required for them to restart operations.The MP also directed the labour department to ensure that workers are paid salaries on time and coordinate between industrialists and labourers so that industries can be started without any hassle.Following the meeting, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri spoke to members of Gurugram Industrial Association (GIA) and NCR Chamber of Commerce and Industries. They requested him to completely waive the fixed charge in electricity bills, to co-operate with industrial units running during the lockdown and to allow industrial units to operate in non-containment zone and industrial areas as industries in these areas are regular suppliers of finished goods to other industries.On April 16, GIA had expressed concerns over resuming operations and informed Singh that industries were already going through recession a year before the Covid-19 pandemic, due to which arranging wages for all employees was difficult. But the industry was somehow incurring these expenses with the hope that the market would improve soon and economic stability would be established, the association had said.Due to the novel coronavirus outbreak, however, a 21-day lockdown was declared across the country, which has now been extended until May 3. While industries closed due to the lockdown disbursed full salaries for March to all categories of workers following the instructions of the government, arranging salaries for the month of April and further is a challenge, GIA had told Singh.GIA president J N Mangla said, To deal with this drastic situation, it has been suggested to the state and the Union governments from time to time that until the industry is able to raise the required revenue, salaries of employees for April and onwards during the lockdown period may be funded by public bodies like the Employees State Insurance Corporation, Employees Provident Fund Organisation, labour welfare funds or through a relief package.In Tuesdays meeting, the Gurugram MP also directed the administration to test doctors, nurses, ward boys and sanitation workers on a priority basis as they are most exposed due to their work.Singh further reviewed the food distribution mechanism of the district administration and social organisations. He said more organisations should come forward and join hands to ensure food reaches every family in this tough time.Deputy commissoner Khatri informed Singh that around 1.75 lakh people are being fed currently and around 60,000 people have been provided dry ration. Singh said big corporates should be encouraged to join the food distribution programme so that daily-wage workers and poor families get food.

Ex-servicemen working as security personnel at the Indian Naval Academy (INA), under a private agency supplying security staff, are on strike alleging cutback in their wages.The Kerala Ex-servicemen Other Ranks Welfare Association (KEXORWA) office-bearers said at a press conference here on Friday that their personnel working at the Indian Naval Academy on contract were on strike since December 11.DemandThe KEXORWA were demanding that they be paid Director General Resettlement (DGR) scale or Kerala scale wages.KEXORWA president P.J. Siby and secretary K.V. Krishnan said at the press conference here that the ex-servicemen had been getting a meagre salary after deduction of Employees Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance.Drastically cutAfter a new Bangalore-based agency took over the security contract of the Indian Naval Academy, their wages had been drastically cut, they said.The agency managers had assured that the wages would be increased as and when there was a hike in the DGR scale, they said.Yet to keep promiseThough the DGR scale had gone up in October, the agency, run by retired officers, was yet to keep its promise.They said the ex-servicemen were doing security duties on the expansive academy campus, except in key portfolio areas manned by Defence Security Centre personnel.The ex-servicemen were given a raw deal by the agencies, they said.

The textile industry here has sought relaxations in some of the social security schemes implemented for textile workers.In a memorandum submitted jointly by 18 textile associations to Union Labour Minister Bandaru Dattatreya during his visit to the city recently, the industry said the labour attrition rate had gone up in the recent years, especially among migrant workers and, during the first few months of employment. Hence, employees were reluctant to contribute for social security schemes such as Employees Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance Scheme. Hence, the schemes should be implemented for the employees only after six months of joining work. The Central Board of Trustees had proposed enhancement of wage ceiling limit from the existing Rs. .15,000 to Rs. . 25,000. This should be deferred as it would be an additional burden to the employer in the present situation.There should be a separate legislation for employment of women workers. Women were employed in different sectors and even in night shifts in some States. However, there was no proper guidance on employment of women. A separate and comprehensive enactment for employment of women workers in the industries is needed, according to the memorandum.In textile mills, majority of the workers were women and many of them came to work after completing their domestic chores. They found it difficult to work for eight hours and preferred three or six hour shifts. The laws could be amended so that the workers and the industries benefited. Women could be compensated on a pro-rata basis of minimum wages or the applicable occupational wages.The Government should permit flexible working hours for women. Though the Minimum Wages Act was a Central Government legislation, it was fixed by State Governments. The existing rates varied between States and even within a State for different sectors.An expert committee with representatives of the industry and the stakeholders should be constituted to recommend uniform minimum wages for the textile industry across the country, the associations said.

GURUGRAM: A committee set up to probe the Employees Provident Fund ( EPF ) and Employees State Insurance (ESI) contributions of MCG s contractual workers has found that the private firms employing them have not been depositing money to their accounts for the past two years. The firms, which were asked to submit the past two years data, presented only six months of records in a meeting here on Wednesday.We had asked the two firms, who provide outsourced workers to MCG, to submit the last two years data on how much amount of money has been deposited to the EPF and ESI accounts of workers. They submitted only six months data, which clearly shows that companies started depositing money in the accounts only after the probe began in September, said Ravinder Yadav, committee member and councillor of ward number three.Officials said that the companies have been asked to again present the last two years data on November 23 before the committee for the final report on the matter. Despite repeated attempts, the representatives of the private firms did not respond to calls.The representatives of the firms said that they never received the attendance records of the contractual workers in time due to which money into the EPF and ESI accounts were not deposited. So, we told them if the attendance record was late by a month, previous months EPF amount should have been deposited in the next months EPF amount. The representatives also said that the system has now been updated and they will start depositing money in the accounts of workers, said an MCG official.The committee was constituted after the issue of firms providing contractual staff to MCG not depositing the EPF and ESI amount of the contractual workers was raised in a House meeting on August 28.

New schemes to aid equitable growthMay 16, 2015: 23:30 ISTThe three social security schemes in the insurance and pension sectors that Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched recently come with all the populist noises that surround announcement of state welfare programmes. The rhetoric surrounding these schemes, be they of optimism or apprehension on their reach and sustainability should not hijack the focus on what essentially is a welcomestep in addressing issues that open up possibilities of equitable development.Insurance penetration in the country, measured in terms of premium paid as percentage of Gross Domestic Product, was 3.9 per cent in 2013 while the global average for the year was 6.3 per cent. The countrys pension schemes cover only 11 per cent of its workforce. These are figures that should steer any debate on schemes that propose to facilitate affordable social security. The Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) offers a life insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh at an annual premium of Rs 330 to all savings bank account holders between 18 and 50 years. The Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) offers a renewable accidental death and disability cover for death or disability on account of an accident at an annual premium of Rs 12; all savings bank account holders between 18 and 70 years are entitled to join the PMSBY. The Atal Pension Yojana (APY) is pegged to what the government calls its continuing policy to encourage savings for retirement among workers in the unorganised sector. The scheme offers subscribers who join between the age of 18 and 40 a fixed monthly pension from 60 years ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000  the variation is based on the plan selected.With the APY, the government has taken forward the Swavalamban pension scheme launched by the United Progressive Alliance government in 2010-11. There is however some difference. The earlier scheme does not guarantee pension benefits at the age of 60. The government has also offered provisions for migration of existing Swavalamban subscribers to APY. Banks have reportedly enrolled 5.05 crore people during a seven-day trial run of the three schemes. Beyond the buzz around a nationwide launch and approving nods from India Inc., the government will have to back intent with concerted action. There are apprehensions on funding models being adopted for the schemes and the reach they propose to achieve. But in essence the three schemes mark an apparent policy shift  from aid to empowerment  and a small, yet significant step forward on the road to stronger, more inclusive social infrastructure.

GST will set in economic integrationMUMBAI:May 10, 2015, DHNS: 7:20 ISTSlamming the opposition for stalling the reform process in the country through the Goods and Services Tax (GST), Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said that GST will bring in economic integration in the country.There are some people working for putting obstacles on growth and hence are stopping GST as well. All the chief ministers are in favour of GST, even the opposition is in favour. There are no numbers to stop it in the Parliament and hence, they adopted a new strategy of affecting the working of Parliament during the three day extension adopted for passing GST. Some people, while they were in government, were a burden on the economy and aspire for the same even in Opposition, Jaitley said, at the launch of the three social security schemes in Mumbai.Seamless transferThe entire country will be a single market, it will be the economic integration of India. There will be a seamless transfer of goods and services if GST is implemented, Jaitley added.Jaitley, along with Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, announced the launch of Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana at the event. The Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and PM Jivan Jyoti Bima Yojana will provide insurance to individuals in any unfortunate event causing death or disability while the Atal Pension Yojana will address the problem of income security during old age according to the government.According to Jaitley, Maharashtra is definitely likely to benefit due to GST implementation. We started the process to end the multitude of indirect taxes across the country and took the states along in this as it would involve a change in the Constitution. Maharashtra will benefit a lot through GST, Jaitley said. Jaitley also seemed bullish about the growth prospects of the economy going forward.

